The Vegan — Winter 1954 (Special 10th Anniversary Issue, Vol. IX No. 3)
Journal of The Vegan Society
Full text extracted from PDF (text layer present).
======================================================================

[Page 2]
THE VEGAN SOCIETY 
Founded November, 1944 
Minimum subscription, which includes "The Vegan," 7s. 6d. per annum, 
payable in January. Life Membership, £7 7s. Od. 
President: 
Mrs. ELSIE B. SHRIGLEY,  , Purley, Surrey. 
Honorary Secretary: 
Mrs. HILDA HONEYSETT, , Ewell, Surrey. 
Honorary Treasurer: 
Mr. L. C. WARREN,  , Dovercourt, Essex. 
THE VEGAN 
JOURNAL OF THE VEGAN SOCIETY 
Editor: Mr. JOHN HERON, , Reigate, Surrey. 
Editorial Board: Mrs. MURIEL DRAKE, Mrs. ELSIE B. SHRIGLBY, 
Mr. ANTHONY CLARK, Mr. JACK SANDERSON. 
Advertisement Manager: Mr. JACK SANDERSON,  , London, 
S.W.10. 
Published quarterly: Annual subscription, 4s. 6d. post free: single copies, 
18. 2d. post free. Obtainable from the Hon. Secretary. 
.'.'• BRANCHES OF THE SOCIETY AND SECRETARIES 
LONDON.—Miss Mavis Lardge, , London, N.6. 
YORKSHIRE.—Miss Stella Rex, , Garforth, 
Nr. Leeds. 
MIDLANDS. -Mr. Don Burton, , Stratford-on-Avon, 
Warwick*. 
BRISTOL.—Mrs. E. Hughes, , Knowle, Bristol 4. 
MANCHESTER.—Miss  Ann E.  Owens, , Northenden. 
•SCOTTISH SECTION.—Miss Dina M. Sutherland,   
Liberton, Edinburgh, 9. 
(Please communicate with your nearest Branch Secretary)

[Page 3]
THE  VEGAN 
Journal of  The  Vegan  Society 
Vol. IX  SPECIAL  ISSUE  No.  3 
EDITORIAL 
BASIC  ISSUES 
This issue  of  The  Vegan  celebrates  the  conclusion  of  the  first 
decade  of  the  Society's  existence.  Veganism,  startling  and 
extreme  to  so  many  at  its  inception,  now,  after  ten  years,  finds 
its ideals  echoed  throughout  the  world.  Among  a  discerning 
minority in  Europe,  in  North  America,  in  India  and  in  Japan,  the 
word "  veganism  " is  known,  its  meaning  and  significance  accepted 
and acknowledged.  Why  is  this?  Surely  because  it  represents  the 
kernel,  the  essence,  of  vegetarian  thought  and  practice.  Unas-
sailable in  argument  and  logic,  proven  in  experience,  adequate  in 
practice,  it  both  symbolizes  and  incarnates  the  true  path  of  man 
through  perfect  harmlessness  to  spiritual  liberty. 
For those  who  happen  to  be  reading  this  journal  for  the  first 
time, may  we  say  that  veganism  is  the  doctrine  that  man  should 
live without  exploiting  animals.  In  a  deeper  sense  this  implies 
a condemnation  of  man's  perversion  of  the  life-force  flowing 
through  certain  species  of the  animal  kingdom.  He  breeds  animals 
not only  to  kill  them  and  consume  their  carcasses;  but  also  exten-
sively and  thoughtlessly  to  exploit  their  sex  functions  (e.g.,  of  the 
cow and  the  hen)  thereby  to  supply  himself  with  large  quantities 
of—ideally—unnecessary  animal  products. 
What are  the  various  perversions  involved?  We  may  instance 
artificial  insemination  and  enforced  bulling,  i.e.,  compulsory  and 
continual  pregnancy  and  lactation;  selective  breeding  to  produce 
heavy layers  among  fowls  and heavy  milkers  among  cows,  resulting 
in a  false  and  degenerate  development  of  the  species;  forcible 
separation  of  the  cow  from  her  new-born  calf  in  order  to  obtain 
her milk  for  humans;  the  wholesale  slaughter  of  bulls,  bull-calves, 
cocks and  old  worn-out  females  for  food.  It  should  be  noted 
that these  various  evils  are  interdependent.  In  a  world  where  no 
animals  were  slaughtered  for  food,  could  truly  humane  poultry  and 
dairy farming—on  anything  like  an  adequate  scale  to  meet  nutri-
tional requirements—be  a  practicable  and  economic  possibility? 
I

[Page 4]
Let us  consider  poultry  farming;  fully  consistent  humane  require-
ments  are  that  males  and  non-productive  females  should  not  be 
killed or  sold  for  slaughter.  This  would  lead  in  time  to  a  dispro-
portionate  relationship  between  bird  population  and  productivity. 
The  farmer  would  become  a  slave  to  a  large  number  of  birds  in 
order  to  obtain,  relative  to  the  cost,  space  and  time  involved,  a 
small  number  of  eggs.  With  respect  to  the  latter,  a  certain  number 
must  be  fertilized  in  order  to  replace  stock;  the  resulting  chicks 
of both  sexes  must  be  allowed  to  fulfil  their  natural  span  of  life.* 
If the  eggs  used  for  food  are  non-fertilized,  we  again  interfere 
in an  arbitrary  way  with  the  biological  destiny  of  the  species. 
What  about  dairy  farming?  Well,  if  we  are  to  be  humane,  we 
allow the  cow to  have  her  calf  according  to  the  natural  rhythms  of 
her species,  we  permit  her  to  feed  it  and  take  only  the  surplus 
milk.  We  do  not  kill  bull  calves  or  old  cows.  Again  we  have 
as a  result  a  disproportionate  relationship.  Would  the  quantity 
of milk  obtained  constitute  a  nutritionally  significant  amount  and 
would  it  justify  the  cost,  time  and  agricultural  land  involved  in 
feeding,  raising  and  supporting  all  the  male  and  female  cattle 
involved? 
I personally  do  not  doubt  that  both  poultry  and  dairy  farming 
could  be  made  reasonably  humane  if  someone  were  sufficiently 
wealthy  and  irrational  to  attempt  it.  But  the  ridiculously  exag-
gerated  situation  involved  would  incline  one  to  believe  that  this 
sort  of  relationship  between  man  and  animals  was  never  intended. 
For  animals  would  become,  so  to  speak,  parasites  upon  the 
generosity  of  man:  both  psychically  and  economically  undesirable. 
In any  case,  who  could  afford  to  do  it?  It  seems  that  in  so  far 
as we  have  tampered  with  the  species  in  question  in  order  to  use 
their  sex  functions  as  a  source  of  food,  we  are  committed  to  the 
further  evil  of a certain  amount  of  slaughtering  in  order  to  keep  the 
situation  economically  under  control.  In  short,  it  is  from  the 
start  a  wrong  relationship,  however  we  try  to  handle  it. 
The  realities  of the  situation  will,  I believe,  become  increasingly 
clear  the  more  intelligent,  sensitive  and  morally  alert  people  depart 
from  the  deceptive  ease  of  urban  life  and  become  acquainted  with 
these  facts  at  first  hand.  The  issue  then  arises:  is  it  possible  to 
obtain  sufficient  animal  products  to  meet  protein  requirements  in 
a practicable  and  economic  way  and  at  the  same  time  pay  full 
respect  to  the  living  principle  that  informs  the  species  that  provide 
them? 
There  are  two  further  points.  First,  there  is  no  consideration 
with  respect  to  what  is  really  advantageous  for  the  development  of 
the animals  concerned.  In  other  words,  does  poultry  and  dairy 
farming  advance  or  retrogress  the  line  of  evolution  to  which  the 
*It is  important  to  note  that  the  humane  poultry  or  dairy  farmer  must 
replace  stock  from  his  own  animals.  If  he  replaces  female  stock  from 
outside,  he  merely  shifts  the  responsibility  of  eliminating  unwanted  males 
to others. 
2

[Page 5]
species concerned  belong?  Our  responsibility  to  other  aspects  of 
planetary  evolution  is  to  encourage  them  to  find  their  own  highest 
level of  expression,  not  to  warp  and  digress  them  to  meet  our  own 
demands.  Second,  these  demands  themselves  can  only  meet  with 
the highest  suspicion.  Is  there  not  an  element  of  ignobility,  a  taint 
of degradation  in  supposing  that  we  can  construct  the  living  temple 
of the  indwelling  spirit  with  substances  that  are  derived  from  a 
capricious  meddling  with  the  sexual  activities  of  animals?  The 
whole purpose  of  physical  generation,  in  any  species,  animal  or 
human,  is  to  produce  higher  and  nobler  forms.  I  suggest  that 
man will  not  attain  his  full  stature,  either  physically  or  spiritually, 
until he  has  endeavoured  to  assist  the  universal  application  of  this 
principle. Dairy  and  poultry  farming  cannot  seriously  claim  to 
do so. 
DEEPER  CONSIDERATIONS 
The previous  paragraph  leads  to  one  fundamental  question.  . 
What is  the  correct  relationship  between  man  and  animals?  The 
key to  a  comprehensive  answer  lies,  I  would  suggest—and  here  I 
am going  to  obtrude  aspects  of  a  personal  occult  philosophy—in 
the fact  that  there  are  two  different  types  of consciousness  evolving 
upon this  planet:  the  human  and  the  non-human.  The  human 
consciousness  grows  through  the  experience  of  physical  incarnation 
and subsequently  on  more  interior  and  emancipated  planes  of 
being. By  the  non-human  consciousness,  I  refer  to  those  spiritual 
beings, called  in  some  schools  the  devas,  whose  unfoldment  pro-
ceeds, perhaps,  through  the  creation  of,  and  control  over,  the 
different  species  of  plant  and  animal  life.  They  develop  their 
consciousness  through  the  elaboration  of  organic  forms  on  the 
physical plane.  I  cannot  enter  here  into  the  more  intricate  impli-
cations of the  interactions  of  these  two  lines  of evolution  except  to 
say, of  course,  that  mutual  co-operation  must  be  the  basis  for  the 
successful  unfoldment  of  planetary  life  in  all  its  aspects.  If  we 
assist high  nature  spirits  in  the  production  of  nobler  and  more 
perfect organic  forms,  we  further  their  evolution  and  they  build 
up an  increasingly  elevating  world  for  us  to  inhabit,  with  a  com-
mensurate  effect  upon  our  own  consciousness.  But  how  in  fact 
does this  work  out  in  practice?  There  is  not  space  to  suggest 
the more  advanced  aspects  of  work  in  this  field,  but  for  a  simple 
example we  may  consider  the  plant  kingdom. 
Undoubtedly  there  is  a  manifestation  of  life  in the  plant  king-
dom, but  of  different  degree  to  that  in  the  animal  kingdom,  con-
sequently the  proper  cultivation  of  wholesome  plant  foods  con-
stitutes a  sphere  of  legitimate  interaction  between  the  devic  and 
human lines  of  evolution.  If  we  understand,  in  terms  of  soil 
science, fertility  farming,  bio-dynamic  agriculture  and  the  like,  the 
mode in  which  the  devas  work  through  the  elementary  beings  of 
arch-nature  (i.e.,  of  the  unseen  nature  behind  that  which  is  seen), 
they will  be  given  a  chance  to  develop  themselves  through  the 
3

[Page 6]
production  of  superior  plants  of  undoubted  quality  and  nutritional 
value  that  can  do  a  great  deal  to  restore  man  not  only  to  physical 
health,  but  also  to a  more  spiritual  and  "  organic  " mode  of percep-
tion^ since  plant  foods  tend  to  liberate  the  spiritual  consciousness. 
Co-operation  in  this  way,  on  a  basis  of  true  understanding,  serves 
to augment  the  unfoldment  of  both  sides.  Conversely,  incorrect 
methods  of  agriculture  simply  result  in  mutual  stultification, 
through  the  deficiencies  of  plant  and  human  forms. 
Even  to  the  sensitive  this  whole  conception  may  seem  a  some-
what  fanciful  affront  to  a  more  rationalistic  view  of  the  world  in 
which  we  live.  Yet  I  am  convinced  that  until  we  have  recovered 
the "  lost  mythology  of  nature  ",  until  we  forewarn  the  spirit  of 
the tree  that  we  wish  to  cut  down,  until  indeed  we  pay  full  respect 
to the  existence  of the  vast and  unseen  sphere  of life  whose develop-
ment  takes  place  before  our  eyes  in  that  magnificent  succession 
of the  multitudinous  forms  of  nature,  we  shall  not  enter  fully  into 
our inheritance  as  "  gardeners  of  the  planet." 
Now if  the  evolution  of  the  different  species  of  animals  repre-
sents  the  objectification  of  the  development  of  certain  high  nature 
spirits,  it  is  appropriate  for  us  to  ask  what  part  man  can  play  in 
the appearance  of  ever  higher  forms  of  animal  life.  Here  again 
there  are  many  deeper  aspects  to  consider,  a,  variety of  issues 
which  might  perhaps  take  a  whole  book  to  discuss  thoroughly; 
but we  can  attain  to  a  general  picture  of  the  highest  possible 
relationship  between  man  and  animals. 
Plants  do  not  move  from  point  to  point:  they  grow  in  a  com-
posite  vertical  and  spiral  manner  always  retaining  (in  the  majority 
of species)  their  centre  of  gravity  roughly  over  the  same  piece  of 
ground.  Therefore  man,  by  horticulture  and  agriculture  (of  the 
correct  kind),  does  not  interfere  with,  and  can  only  enhance,  their 
evolution:  for  as  the  plant  is  concerned  with  the  creation  of  an 
organic  form  in  a  given  area  of  space,  when  it  is  put  in  the  right 
place  at  the  right,  time  and  in  the  right  soil  it  can  go  about  its 
work  without  any  limitations  whatsoever  being  imposed  upon  it. 
Animals,  however,  are  endowed  with  a  capacity  for  movement:  an 
endowment  with  which  the  elaboration  of  sense  organs  is  closely 
allied.  Here,  there  is  a higher  degree  of manifested  life  than  in  the 
plant  kingdom,  for  in  animals  life  manifests  in  a  pattern  of 
behaviour  through  movement  as  well  as  in  the  creation  of  an 
organic  form.  Only  where  it  has  unrestricted  movement  in  its 
natural  milieu  can  a  given species  fully  express  its  innate  behaviour-
pattern.  This  is  because  the  behaviour-pattern  is  designed,  so  to 
speak,  to  interact  closely  with  the  full  range  of  factors  found  in 
nature.  And  this  suggests  that  man's  first  responsibility  to  the 
devas  concerned  with  the  animal  kingdom  is  to  provide  parks  and 
wildlife  preserves  where  they  may  go  about  their  work  of  unfolding 
animal  behaviour-patterns  unmolested.  Such  sanctuaries  are,  of 
course,  already  in  existence  in  Africa,  North  America  and 
elsewhere. 
4

[Page 7]
But it  is  not  only  the  provision  of  such  preserves  that  is  impor-
tant.  For  once  they  have  been  established  man  can  then,  in  a  new 
mode,  continue  on  the  principle  of  co-operative  cultivation  that  he 
has applied  in  the  plant  kingdom.  Thus,  in  the  light  of  a  true 
knowledge  of  the  manner  of  devic  activity  he  can  assist  the  evolu-
.tion of the  animal  species  by  such  things  as  a  discreet  control  over 
ecological factors,  and  the  wise  management  of  the  balance  of  the 
species, and,  no  doubt,  by  various  other  means.  There  is  no  inter-
ference  here  with  the  behaviour-pattern  of  the  species,  but  only  the 
introduction  of  subtle  modifications  into  the  total  area,  or  park, 
within which  such  behaviour-patterns  are  expressed.  This  suggests 
an area  of  human  activity  of  deep  interest,  which,  while  significant 
perhaps  only  for  the  more  remote  future,  indicates  that  man's 
responsibility  to  the  devic  evolution  calls  not  only  for  love,  but 
for love  expressed  through  wisdom,  the  higher  science  of  the  new 
age. Cultivation  here  is  directly  analogous  to  that  applied  to 
plants:  the  introduction  of  those  factors  into  the  natural  environ-
ment of  the  species  in  order  thereby  to  assist  the  devic  workers 
to ever  higher  manifestations  of  organic  form  and  activity. 
Can it  be  argued,  however,  that  certain  species  can  be  legiti-
mately brought  into  much  closer  association  with  man—their 
original forms  and  behaviour-patterns  very  considerably  modified 
by the  conditions  of  this  association—to  the  advantage  both  of 
the devas  concerned  and  of  man?  Or,  to  rephrase  it  slightly,  is 
it in  the  true  scheme  of  things  that  man  and  the  devas  working 
through  certain  species  should  co-operate  for  certain  purposes  to 
their mutual  advantage? 
Let us  see  what  man  has  actually  done  in  the  way  of  bringing 
animals  into  association  with  himself.  We  will  discount  as  totally 
wrong the  relationships  implied  in  such  things  as  raising  animals 
for meat,  cavalry,  vivisection,  fur-raising  and  all  similar  evils 
wherein , man studiously  accomplishes  the  crucifixion  of  seen  and 
unseen nature.  These  serious  distortions  of  planetary  relationships 
cast a  vicious  knife  into  the  heart  of  nature  and  infect  the  human 
race with  misery.  There  is  no  justification  for  them.  We  engage 
in darkness  and  we  partake  of  darkness  as  a  result.  But  the  three 
principal  relationships  about  which  there  is the  greatest  controversy 
among humanitarians,  are  those  in  which  animals  work  for  man, 
provide  him  with  materials  for  clothing,  and  provide  him  with  milk, 
.milk products  and  eggs.  It  is  frequently  argued  that  man  and 
animals were  meant  to  co-operate  together  for  these  three  ends. 
There  is  certainly  no  doubt  that  they  confer  apparent  advantages 
on man,  but  the  argument  is  surely  invalid  if  the  species  concerned 
do not  benefit  more  than  they  suffer. 
I have  only  space  here  to  deal  with  the  third  relationship  con-
cerning animal  products,  with  which  I  am  particularly  concerned 
in this  essay.  The  reader  may  find  out  what  is  involved  in  the 
other two  by  applying  to  them  somewhat  similar  arguments  as 
those that  follow,  although  possibly  with  considerable  variation 
5

[Page 8]
in result.  Now  it  has  been  claimed  that  the  human  and  bovine 
races  were  intended  to  co-operate  together  in  the  production  of 
milk.  This  idea  may  seem,  at  first  sight,  reasonable,  but  a  little 
analysis  seems  to  me  to  reveal  that  it  is  thoroughly  misleading,  if 
not downright  dangerous. 
True  co-operation  between  two  parties  is  on  a  basis  of  love 
and with  a  resultant  benefit  to  both.  A  given  species—and  thereby 
the devas  manifesting  through  it—can  only  benefit  from  a  mode 
of co-operation  that  leads  to  a  new  and  educative  and  possibly 
improved  behaviour-pattern,  and  also  to  a  gradual  improvement  in 
its organic  structure.  The  production  of  milk,  however,  tends  to 
a distortion  of  the  sexual  and  maternal  behaviour-pattern  of  the 
species  concerned,  and,  through  selective  breeding,  to  a  degenera-
tion of  organic  form  leading  to  over-production,  short  life  and 
disease. 
The  primary  advantage—apart  from  protection,  food  and 
shelter—that  domesticated  animals,  such  as  pets,  can  receive  from 
man is  the  radiation  of  his  love  and  understanding.  For  when  a 
man truly  loves  and  understands  animals—who,  of  course,  respond 
instantly  and  markedly  to  any  manifestation  of  love  and  trust— 
the devic  and  human  modes  of  consciousness  meet  on  the  highest 
possible  level,  each  experiences  a  sense  of  upliftment  at  having 
penetrated  to  the  inner  recesses  of a  totally  different  order  of  being, 
and a  corresponding  expansion  of  consciousness  is  the  result.  Yet 
for  reasons  gven  in  the  earlier  part  of  this  essay,  I  suggest  that 
it is  not  possible  consistently  to  love  the  animals  involved  in  milk 
production  while  maintaining  the  nutritional  relationship  on  a  prac-
ticable  basis.  There  seems  to  be  very  little  return  at  all  to  the 
devic  line  of  evolution  in  this  matter,  for  the  "  co-operation  "  is, 
in fact,  "  exploitation  ". 
The  truth  of  the  matter  seems  to  me  that  man  has  isolated  a 
certain  species,  inordinately  increased  its  numbers  and  possibly 
created  a  serious  unbalance  in  the  unseen  realms  of  nature.  We 
may well  wonder  to  what  degree  the  wholesale  enslavement  of 
those  elementary  beings  who  are  continually  called  upon  in  total 
disregard  of  the  more  leisurely  cycles  of  their  normal  activity  to 
pour  down  their  life-energies  into  the  glandular  and  generative 
organs  of  the  cow  and  the  hen,  involves  a  considerable  disruption 
in the  evolutionary  trend  of,  and  amongst  the  interplay  of  forces 
in, nature.  The  devic  evolution  here  has  obviously  been  cast  into 
a cancerous  retrogression.  And  the  corollary  in  terms  of  radies-
thesia,  is  whether  the  vibratory  quality  of  the  foods  thus  produced 
has a  desirable  effect,  particularly  upon  the  young.  (It  has  been 
suggested,  for  example,  that  the  milk  from  artificially  inseminated 
cows stimulates  prematurely  the  sex  glands  of  the  children  who 
consume  it.) 
The  most  that  one  can  say  is  that  the  use  of  animal  milk  by 
man  was  an  accommodation  appropriate  perhaps  to  the  not-so-
light,  past  cycles  of  the  planet,  when  more  primitive  conditions, 
6

[Page 9]
smaller populations,  a  greater  at-one-ness  with  nature,  kept  it  to 
a small  scale  and  kept  its  subsidiary  evils  in check.  But  it  cannot 
seriously be  justified  by  anyone  who  is  concerned  ultimately  with 
the emergence  of a  new  and  regenerate  order  of  human  and  animal 
life. More  than  this,  I  would  like  to  suggest  that  we  cannot  expect 
to receive  much  illumination  about  those  higher  forces  of  nature 
upon which  so  much  of  the  science  of  the  new  age  will  surely  be 
based,  until  our  physical  and  moral  relationships  to  those  forces 
have been  restored  to  that  degree  of grace  and  purity  that  is revealed 
by a  full  analysis  of  the  facts  to  have  been  originally  intended. 
I come  now  to  the  deepest  aspect  of  the  animal-man  relation-
ship: that  subtle  and  profound  interaction  on  the  level  of qualities 
which reveals  a  fundamental  key  to  the  manner  in  which  man  in 
the most  interior  way  can  assist  the  appearance  of  higher  forms, 
can augment  the  influence  of  those  animals  with  desirable 
behaviour-patterns  and  decrease  the  influence  of  those  with 
undesirable  attributes. 
Animals  represent  the  various  higher  and  lower  aspects  of 
mankind  spread  out  symbolic  form  upon  the  face  of  the  earth. 
They constitute,  so  to  speak,  a  mobile  card-index  of  human 
behaviour.  They  are  the  diversified  objectification  of  qualities 
that mankind  itself  is  manifesting.  The  correlation  may  not  in 
all instances  be  obvious,  but  broadly  speaking  the  imaginative  will 
perceive its  validity.  In  displaying  the  qualities  that  they  represent, 
such as  swiftness,  courage,  industry,  strength,  docility,  peacefulness, 
in a  pure,  untampered  way,  animals  create  a  living,  magnetic 
envelope, a  psychic  sphere  surrounding  the  planet  that  provides  a 
vital force  of  great  value  to  us  in  our  daily  lives.  This  is  not  a 
particularly  difficult  conception  if  we  think  of  the  flat  and  tepid 
condition  of  a  world  devoid  of  animal  life.  Animals,  so  to  speak, 
radiate  an  ambience  of  volatile  and  natural  enthusiasm  that  con-
ditions our  own  response  to  life. 
But the  return  current  is  doubtlessly  more  powerful.  If  man 
radiates  true  compassion  and  all  noble  qualities;  if  he  ceases  to 
radiate  the  ill-effects  of his  predatory  and  nefarious  habits,  there 
will tend  to  be  a  corresponding  amelioration  of  affairs  among 
animals;  higher  forms  will tend  to  appear,  those  that  live  by  tooth 
and claw  will  tend  to  die  out.  Indeed,  I  venture  to  suggest,  so 
profound  is  the  working  power  of  this  symbolic  relationship,  that 
when man  totally  desists  from  his  present  war-like  andj  carnivorous 
habits, the  carnivorous  and  similar  animals  will have  been  removed 
from  the earth  by a  discreet  and  subtle  interaction  of  natural  forces. 
The modus  operandi  of  the  relationship  is  probably  not  only  by 
direct cause  and  effect  on  the  level  of  qualities,  but  also  by  a 
parallel reaction  of  both  mankind  and  the  animal  kingdom  to 
higher forces  or  inspirations  acting  on  each. 
Here  again  we  can  see  a  dual  process  of  co-operative  unfold-
ment. By  the  exercise  of  compassion  and  the  manifestation  of 
his higher  nature,  and  by  the  wise  administration  of  parks  and 
7

[Page 10]
preserves,  man  provides  on  the  psychic  and  corporeal  levels  respec-
tively,  suitable  conditions  for  the  progress  of  devic  evolution;  the 
resulting  improvement,  as  it  were,  in  animal  behaviour  raises  the 
psychic  "  tone  " of  the  planet  and  provides  vital  force  of  a  higher 
grade  as  a  basis  for  the  positive  expression  of  man's  higher 
attributes. 
The  great  mistake  is  to  believe  that  we  have  a  right  to  appro-
priate  this  vital  force  by  eating  animals  or'their  products.  There 
is no  doubt  that  animal  foods  act  like  a  psychic  charge  to  the 
organism:  the  physiological  correspondence  to  this  is  described  by 
nutritionists  as  the  "  specific  dynamic  action  " of  flesh-foods.  But 
in the  very  act  of  obtaining  it  the  law  of  the  symbolism  becomes 
inexorably  applied.  The  cruel  and  predatory  qualities  in  man, 
to which  every  slaughterhouse  testifies,  merely  sustains  the  power 
of those  species  that  respond  thereto.  But  more  than  this,  by 
slaughtering  the  more  gentle  animals  for  food,  man  unwittingly 
slays the  gentle  principle  within  himself,  for  the  decaying  flesh 
that  he  consumes  with  its  poisonous  "extractives"  induces  upon 
his nervous  system  those  states  of  irritability,  moodiness  and 
aggressiveness,  that  lay  the  foundations  for  a  war-like  spirit.  Is 
it unfair  to  find  an  equation  between  those  vast  herds  of  cows, 
strange  degenerate  creatures,  reduced  to  complete  docility,  receiving 
continual  sexual  stimulation,  and  the  inert  cupidity  of  the  mass-
mind  of  modern  mankind,  among  whom  there  is  so  much  sexual 
intoxication?  Milk  is  notoriously  inadequate  as  a  brain  food, 
and with  its  other  "  qualities  " .  .  ?  Contemporary  poultry  and 
dairy  farming,  any  more  than  the  slaughterhouse,  do  not  lend 
themselves  happily  to  symbolic  interpretation.  I  strongly  recom-
mend  that  we  examine  imaginatively  the  conditions  and  habits  of 
all animals  upon  the  face  of the  earth  and  thus  learn  a  little  more 
about  ourselves.  The  implications  of  this  conception  will  repay 
meditation. 
And  perhaps,  finally,  if  man  is  able  to  learn  the  keys  to  estab-
lishing  a  correct  relationship  with  animals,  they  will  come  forward 
voluntarily,  under  the  power  of  devic  inspiration,  to  associate  with 
him in  unexpected  and  profound  ways. 
JOHN HERON. 
SPECIAL  ISSUE 
Although  we  have  called  this  a  special  issue  of  The  Vegan  to 
celebrate  the  first  ten  years  of  the  Vegan  Society,  it  is  actually  a 
much  delayed  version  of  the  Winter,  1954,  number,  and  should  be 
considered  as  such  in  the  series.  The  Committee  felt  it  was 
appropriate  to  come  out  in  new  dress  for  this  occasion.  Please 
send your  comments  on  the  new  lay-out  to  the  Editor.  Please 
note  also  that  this  issue  is  correctly  numbered  as  Number  3  of 
Volume  IX.  The  previous  two  numbers  should,  of  course,  have 
been  Numbers  1  and  2,  not  9  and  10. 
8

[Page 11]
THE SURGE  OF  FREEDOM 
Leslie J.  Cross 
THIS  is  an  attempt  to  state  in  simple  terms  what  veganism  is 
and why  and  how  it  came  into  existence,  and  to  suggest  what  it 
could mean  for  mankind. 
The word  "  veganism"  is  a  symbol  that  stands  for  a  major 
change,  a  new  mutation  comparable  to  the  freeing  of the  serfs  and 
the freeing  of  the  slaves. 
Its official  definition—"  the doctrine  that  man  should  live  with-
out exploiting  animals"—is  accurate,  precise  and  comprehensive, 
but not  always  fully  understood.  This  is  not  as  surprising  as  it 
might seem,  for  rarely  have  nine  short  words  enshrined  a  reform 
so massive,  the  achievement  of  which  would  bring  a new  world  and 
new men  to  inhabit  it. 
• *  *  * 
Why do  we  believe  we  should  live  without  exploiting  animals? 
To put  the  question  in  another  form,  why  was  such  a  doctrine 
formulated? 
The final  if  not  the  immediate  answer  is  a  revealing  one,  for 
it demonstrates  the  truth  of  the  claim  that  veganism  is  not  a  mere 
side-shoot  in  human  evolution,  but  a  central  extending  growth  of 
considerable  significance. 
Veganism owes  its  birth  to  the  fact  that  at  the  deepest  point 
within us  we  believe  impregnably  in  freedom—particularly  perhaps 
those who  were  .born and  bred  in  these  traditionally,  freedom-loving 
islands. 
Freedom  to  live  our  own  lives  in  our  way,  according  to  our 
own inward  light,  is  fundamental  to  our  view  of  life  itself.  It  is 
in the  light  of  this  concept  that  we  find  the  true  significance  of 
the vegan  reform.  Only  when  we  see  it  as  a  doctrine  not  of 
restriction  (as  those  who  oppose  it  mistakenly  believe),  but  of 
freedom,  do  we  fully  comprehend  it. 
The simple  fact  is  this:  that  at  rock  bottom,  veganism  is  the 
most recent  of  the  periodic  surges  which  have  marked  the  tide  of 
freedom  ever  since  history  began.  It  is  distinguished  from  its 
predecessors  by  virtue  of  the  fact  that  it  brings  a  quite  new  and 
distinctive  feature  into  the  long  fight  for  liberty;  it  has  driven  the 
tide of freedom  beyond  what  has  hitherto  been  held  to  be its natural 
boundary—the  concept  of  the  free  man.  Until  the  advent  of 
veganism,  comparatively  few  men  regarded  the  animals  as  being 
either worthy  of  or  entitled  to  the  right  to  be  free,  and  probably 
fewer still  realised  the  impressive  effect  which the  granting  of  such 
a right  would  have  upon  the  freedom  of  man  himself. 
The real,  the  indelible  significance  of  veganism  is  its  devas-
tatingly logical  demonstration  that  by  denying,  to  the  animals  the 
right to  be  free,  man  keeps  locked  against  himself  the  gateway 
to his  own  further  pursuit  of  happiness. 
9

[Page 12]
To believe  in the  right  to  be  free  means  inevitably  that  we  grant 
that  same  right  to  others.  If  we  fail  in this,  we  deny  the  principle 
itself.  We  thus  make  of  Orwell's  1984  a  logical  possibility  and 
the slavery  of  one  man  to  another  a  justifiable  act.  To  put  it 
in another  way,  the  law  of  freedom—which  is  also  the  law  of  love 
—knows  no  limits.  Because  in  his  mind  man  has  excluded  the 
animals  from  its  operation,  he  has  set  arbitrary  limits  upon  it, 
and in  so  doing  has  reaped  what  he  has  sown—a  severe  limitation 
upon  his  own  progress.  It  is  upon  this  factor,  this  little-recognised 
bar to  the  upward  growth  of  man,  that  veganism  throws  such  a 
ruthless  and  revealing  light. 
When  we  turn  to  the  question  of  how  veganism  came  into  the 
world  we  find  an  excellent  example  of  the  indirect  approach  which 
the forces  of  destiny  sometimes  adopt. 
The  mundane  fact  is  that  the  seed  of  veganism  grew  out  of  a 
year's  argument  in  the  correspondence  columns  of  The  Vegetarian 
Messenger about  the  moral  case  against  the  use  of  dairy  produce 
by vegetarians.  At  the  end  of  the  correspondence,  a  handful  of 
vegetarians  decided  they  would  like  to  form  themselves  into  a 
" non-dairy  "  group  within  the  Vegetarian  Society.  But  the  Society 
declined  and  suggested  that  these  few  members  should  set  up  an 
organisation  of  their  own.  Thus  was  the  Vegetarian  Society  the 
unwitting  handmaid  of  destiny,  for  the  direct  result  of  its  action 
was the  formation  of  the  Vegan  Society  in  November,  1944. 
The  new  society  was  not  long  content  with  being  merely  "  non-
flesh, non-dairy,  non-egg,  non-honey  ".  Commodities  such  as  fur, 
leather  and  wool  joined  animal  food  as  being  "  non-vegan". 
There  was  an  early  attempt  to  get  at  the  root  of  what  is  wrong  with 
the relationship  between  man  and  the  animals;  to  deal  with  the 
cause  rather  than  its  almost  uncountable  effects.  However,  not 
without  some  years  of  internal  stress  and  strain  was  the  society 
able  to  be  precise  about  what  it  wanted  to  do.  It  made  up  its 
mind finally  on  November  11th,  1950,  when  it  agreed  in  a  special 
general  meeting  that  what  it  wanted  to  do  was  to  end  the  exploita-
tion  of  animals  by  man. 
Between  1944  and  1950  the  inner  and  true  meaning  of veganism 
was held  "  in  solution  ",  undefined  and  incompletely  recognised. 
The  "  non-dairy"  motivation  was  from  the  start  clearly  insuffi-
cient as  a  final  meaning;  it  was  in  fact  no  more  than  the  trigger-
movement  that  impelled  a  new  and  profound  truth  into  the  world. 
In 1950,  when  the  meaning  of veganism  became  generally  apparent, 
it was  formulated  into  a  simple  phrase  which  was  inserted  into 
the society's  constitution. 
Since 1950  there  has  been  no  doubt  as  to  its  meaning.  The 
short  definition  quoted  in  the  early  part  of  this  article  is  amplified 
by Rule  4  (a):  "  the  Society  shall  seek  to  end  the  use  of  animals 
by man  for  food,  commodities,  work,  hunting,  vivisection  and  all 
other  uses  involving  explbitation  of  animal  life  by  man." 
Although  prior  to  1950  there  was  a  good  deal  of  argument  as 
10

[Page 13]
to what  veganism  in  fact  was,  one  thing  was  never  in  doubt: 
the impelling  power  behind  the  movement  was,  and  remains, 
compassion  for  the  animals,  arising  out  of  their  treatment  at  the 
hands  of  man.  It  was  compassion  that  led  the  first  handful  to 
band together  in  1944  and  it  is  compassion  that  provides  the  motive 
power to-day. 
* *  *  * 
As a  society,  an  important  part  of  our  work  is  to  bring  to 
the notice  of  men  everywhere  something  which  might  otherwise 
escape their  attention:  the  all-round  importance  of  animal  emanci-
pation. 
Animals  present  man  with  the  supreme  test  of  his  worthiness 
and ability  to  advance;  the  test  of  how  he  behaves  toward  those 
over whom  he  possesses  power. 
It is  sad  but  true  that  in  the  face  of  this  test  more  often  than 
not he  seeks  his  own  ends  at  the  cost  of  suffering  to the  animals. 
He hunts,  slaughters,  vivisects  and  enslaves  them.  To  obtain 
their milk  he  inflicts  upon  them  some  of  the  least  worthy  of  all 
his exploitations—the  deliberate  and  forcible  separation  of  mother 
cow from  baby  calf.  He  takes  the  wild,  free  and  noble  horse, 
breaks,  castrates  and  harnesses  it.  His  constant  prayer  is  not 
so much  for  daily  bread,  as  for  daily  flesh.  The  compassionate 
man may  well  be  excused  for  asking  pointedly  what  kind  of  a 
relationship  this  can  be,  that  has  for  its  symbols  the  whip  and 
the bit  and  the  slaughterer's  knife. 
The American  writer  Henry  Bailie  Stevens  has  argued  that  one 
of the  "  wrong  turnings  " taken  by  man  somewhere  in  his  evolution 
was the  enslavement  ("  domestication  ")  of  animals.  The  conten-
tion is  to  say  the  least  logical.  There  is  not  much  common  sense, 
for example,  in  asking  for  peace  on  earth  and  at  the  same  time 
prosecuting  what  amounts  to  war  upon  the  animals. 
What is  needed  to  begin  with  to  correct  this  evolutionary 
deviation  is  acceptance  of  the  idea  that  animal  emancipation  is  a 
desirable  aim.  If  a  sufficient  number  of  people  experienced  such 
a mental  conversion,  then  the  skills  and  ingenuity  of  men  could 
be used  to  develop  alternatives  to  those  products  of  animal  origin 
which the  majority  of  men  undoubtedly  believe  to  be  essential  to 
their well-being.  These  products—a  completely  satisfactory  non-
animal milk  is  an  example—are  necessary  if  the  universal  practical 
application  of  the  ideal  is  to  be  achieved.  For  men  and  women 
are not  all  alike  and  there  are  many  for  whom  the  practical 
obstacles  must  at  present  seem  insurmountable.  We  cannot  shut 
our eyes  to  the  undoubted  fact  that  to  such  people  such  obstacles 
are real  and  not  imaginary. 
In order  to  provide  the  vegan movement  with  sufficient  resources 
and skill,  it  is  vital  to  attract  people  to  it.  The  most  immediate 
method is  the  spreading  of  the  idea—the  idea  of  animal  emancipa-
tion. We  shall  welcome  converts  of  whatever  degree—those  who 
can promise  no  more  than  mental  acceptance  equally  with  those 
11

[Page 14]
who faithfully  and so  far  as  they  are  able,  put  their  acceptance  of 
the ideal  into  daily  practice. 
As the  idea  becomes  more  and  more  accepted,  opportunities 
will grow  to  make  the  path  easier  and  more  attractive  for  those 
whose  nature  is  not  that  of  the  pioneer.  Concurrent  with  the 
gradual  removal  of  obstacles  to  personal  practice,  attention  will 
have  to  be  given  to  the  question  of  how  we  propose  to  deal  with 
animals  in  general  as  soon  as  the  change-over  from  exploitation 
to freedom  reaches  a  certain  stage.  It  is  not  difficult  to  see  that 
such a  change-over  will  bring  with  it  problems  of  a  wide  and 
general  character.  No-one,  least  of  all  the  vegan,  wants  a  world 
without  animals—and  how  in  general  and  in  detail  we  propose 
to effect  the  swing-over  from  exploitation  and  perversion  to  free-
dom  and  naturalness  will  be  quite  a  talking  point  one  fine  day. 
If I  may  intrude  a  personal  observation,  there  is  little  more 
desirable  I  would  ask  of  providence  than  that  such  a  day  should 
dawn  while  I  am  still  here  to  experience  it.  How  glorious,  for 
example,  to  take  part  in  a  discussion  to  decide  whether,  for  the 
purposes  of  the  change-over,  a  nature  park  or  an  animal  sanctuary 
should  be  set  up  in  this  or  that  part  of  the  country  and  exactly 
how it  should  be  planned! 
When  veganism  reaches  such  a  stage  there  will  have  been  an 
immense  change  of  heart  and  mind  in  the  majority  of  men  and 
women.  The  idea  of  exploiting  animals  will  be  as  repugnant  then, 
as the  idea  of  human  slavery  is  to-day.  Some  of  the  changes  in 
daily  living  are  obvious.  There  will,  for  example,  be  no  butchers' 
shops  and  the  milkman  (if he  still  goes his  rounds)  will be delivering 
vegan  milk.  The  countryside  will  not  be  heavy  with  the  anguish 
of cows  crying  for  their  calves.  There  will  be  no  slaughterhouses, 
no vivisection  laboratories,  no-one  will  hunt  animals  for  fun  .  .  . 
But some  of  the  changes  are  not  so  obvious.  The  benefits  to 
man  himself  of  living  in  a  kindlier  and  more  enlightened  world 
can be  envisaged  only  in  broadest  outline.  His  health,  physical 
and mental,  will  be  vastly  improved.  Because  he  will  have  shed 
a great  deal  of  the  coarser  part  of  his  nature,  benefits  of  the 
spirit  will  shower  upon  him—benefits  which  to-day  by  his  own 
short-sighted  volition  he  denies  himself. 
Such is  the  stuff  of  dreams  ...  To  make  them  true  requires 
that  we  play  our  part  as  it  comes  to  us.  We  are  in  the  very 
elementary  stages  of  the  new  mutation.  We  are  the  pioneers. 
SUBSCRIPTION  REMINDER 
The  Executive  Committee  earnestly  request  all  Members  and 
Associates  to  assist  their  Society  in  the  most  practicable  way  pos-
sible, by  sending  in  their  subscriptions  immediately  and  without 
delay.  Thank  you.  Mr.  L.  C.  Warren  is  still  receiving  sub-
scriptions. 
12

[Page 15]
WHAT  IS  TRUE  VEGETARIANISM? 
Pietro Rotondi,  D.c.,  N.D. 
As A  VEGETARIAN  for  over  thirty-six  years,  it  is  an  honour  and 
a pleasure  to  meet  other  vegetarians  personally  or  even  through 
the pages  of  a  vegetarian  magazine.  After  being  introduced  to 
strangers,  however,  our  conversation  usually  follows  a  pattern. 
They say  heartily,  "  So you  too  are  a  vegetarian.  Splendid!  " 
Then I  pose  the  question:  "You  are  vegetarians  in  the  true 
sense of  the  word,  that  is,  you  eat  neither  eggs  nor  take  milk?" 
After  a  short,  dazed  silence  comes  the  shocking  reply:  "  But, 
of course,  we  eat  lots  of  eggs  and  drink  plenty  of  milk;  naturally, 
we don't  touch  meat;  we  are  lacto-ovo-vegetarians!" 
What a  rude  awakening  ninety  per  cent  of  that  type  of  vege-
tarian  has  later  on!  In  fact,  I  contend  that  lacto-ovo-vegetarians 
have no  right  to  be  called  vegetarians  at  all. 
Webster defines  a vegetarian  as  "  one  who  abstains  from  a meat 
diet and  lives  on fruit,  vegetables  and  farinaceous  foods."  We  add 
nuts, legumes,  roots  and  tubers  to  complete  the  definition.  There 
is no  mention  of  any  animal  product  in  the  dictionary's  definition. 
It is  my earnest  contention  that  any product  of  the  animal  kingdom 
is no more  fit  to  be  consumed  as  food than  the  animal  itself.  And 
any person  who  consumes  animal  products  is  not  eligible  to  be 
classed as  a  vegetarian,  for  there  is  much  truth  in  the  old  adage, 
" You  may  as  well  eat  the  Devil  as  drink  his  broth." 
The animal  kingdom  has  been  called  "  a  reservoir  of  disease  " 
by no  less  an  eminent  medical  authority  than  Dr.  Karl  F.  Meyer, 
M.D.,  Director  of  the  Medical  Centre,  University  of  California, 
in San  Francisco. 
Mr. William  H.  Feldman,  D.V.M.,  M.S.,  Mayo  Foundation, 
Rochester,  N.Y.,  in  an  address  to  the  Medical  College  of  Virginia, 
May 7th,  1938,  stated:  "  Man  is  indebted  to  the  animals  for  food, 
furs,  clothing,  leather,  fertilizer  and  medicines,  besides  work  and 
companionship;  but  on  the  other  side  of  the  ledger  many  human 
diseases are  traceable directly  or  indirectly to  contact  with  diseased 
animals or  their  by-products." 
The above  facts  were not  directed  toward  vegetarians;  they  are 
all the  more  emphatic,  however,  coming  from  flesh-eating,  dairy-
product-consuming  members  of  the  human  race  to  admit. 
Brucellosis (undulant  fever),  psittacosis,  rabies,  tularemia, 
encephalomyelitis  (sleeping  sickness),  tuberculosis,  spotted  fever, 
bubonic  plague,  jaundice,  trichinosis  and  other  worm  parasites 
including tapeworm  and  thyroid  cancer,  should  be  an  imposing 
enough array  to  impress  all  with  the  seriousness  of  animal-to-man 
communicable  diseases. 
For specific  instances,  I  can  cite  the  case  of  a  lacto-ovo-vege-
13

[Page 16]
tarian,  a  girl  whom  we  shall  call  Miss  C.  She  was  stricken  with 
rheumatic  fever,  but  under  strict,  natural  care  she  completely 
recovered;  whereas  her  friend,  a  flesh-eater,  died  with  the  same 
disease. 
After  marrying  a  flesh-eater,  Miss  C  accepted  his  food  habits. 
Infected  with  strepto-cocci  of  the  throat,  her  husband  was  hospita-
lized and  died.  Her  sister,  well  known  as  a  lacto-ovo-vegetarian 
in the  local  health  movement,  became  ill  with  the  same  virulent 
disease.  Treated  by  our  natural  methods,  she  soon  recovered. 
Her  non-vegetarian  husband—with  strong  alcoholic  tendencies— 
also became  infected  and,  accepting  our  treatment,  recovered  under 
strict,  natural  care  within  a  week's  time.  Such  a  case  proved  again 
that animal  products  are  no  less  virulent  than  the  dead  flesh  itself. 
Then  there  was  five-year-old  Mary  G,  who  was  suffering  from 
tonsilitis  and  enlarged  adenoids.  Her  family  medical  doctor 
advised  immediate  surgery.  A  neighbour  suggested  natural  healing 
methods.  Mary's  parents  were  open-minded  and  by  forbidding 
the quarts  of  milk  the  child  would  have  consumed  and  discon-
tinuing  eggs  from  her  diet,  Mary  soon  became  a  healthy  specimen 
of childhood  under  my  direction.  This  occurred  some  years  ago 
and without  the  mutilation  of  the  knife. 
The  above  two  brief  cases  could  be  multiplied  by  the  hundreds 
and my  greatest  concern  to-day  as  a  doctor  of  natural  methods 
deals  with  the  many  children—and  adults  too—who  must  need-
lessly be  subjected  to  surgery  when  proper  diet  and  natural  care 
could  restore  them  to  good  health. 
Granted  that  my  readers  do  not  eat  the  flesh  of  animal,  fish  or 
fowl,  let  us  then  consider  the  butter  and  egg  question  fairly, 
honestly  and  impartially.  And  I  do  not  ask  anyone  to  accept  my 
word alone;  there  are  the  aforementioned  men  of  medicine  who 
themselves  make  acknowledgements. 
It has  been  established  through  analysis  that  the  composition  of 
cow's  milk  is  vastly  different  from  human  mother's  milk.  The 
former  was  intended  to  build  large,  bony  structures,  including 
horns,  hooves  and  ninety-eight  per  cent  more  hair.  According 
to the  late  authority,  Dr.  John  H.  Kellogg,  "  The  popular  notion 
that  cow's  milk  contains  everything  needful  for  nutrition  is  an 
unfortunate  and  dangerous  error  though  one  into  which  a  person 
very naturally  falls.  Eggs  and  milk  are  exactly  adapted  to  the 
nourishment  of  the  species  of  animals  producing  them.  They  are 
not so  well  adapted  for  use  by  adults  of  the  same  species  nor  the 
young  of  other  species." 
May I  add  here  the  proven  fact  that  certain  types  of dangerous 
streptococci  and  other  groups  of  bacteria  may  actually  flourish 
at the  temperature  of  pasteurization.  Statistics  available  indicate 
that  cancer  occurs  with  higher  frequency  among  people  who  are 
habitual  milk  drinkers.  I  maintain  that  in  view  of  the  over-
whelming  evidence  against  cow's  milk,*  supported  by  the  pages 
14

[Page 17]
which have  been  written  regarding  its  dangers,  it  should  be  out-
lawed for  human  consumption  entirely! 
The foregoing  statements—necessarily  but  a  brief  mention  of 
the case  against  milk—should  give  rise  to  serious  consideration  by 
my readers  of  the  continued  use  of  milk,  especially  by  those  who 
are truly  health-minded. 
Now let  us  consider  eggs.  How  can  such  innocent  items  of 
food be  contaminated  and  why  are  they  so  unhealthful,  are  natural 
queries  asked  by  the  uninformed.  Here  is  the  answer.  The  cycle 
of infection  from  hen  to  egg  to  chick  is  illustrated  by  the  fact  that 
chicks hatched  from  eggs of pullorum-infected  hens  carry  infection 
in their  yolks,  internal  organs  and  intestines  at  the  time  of hatching. 
If an  infected  pullet-chick  survives,  it  will  mature  and  lay  infected 
eggs. There  is  a vicious  circle  indeed  for  the  egg-eater  to  contem-
plate. In  one  test,  among  the  1,728  incubator  eggs  tested,  infection 
up to  8.4  per  cent  was  found  to  be  present.  Poultry  men  know 
that it  is  unsafe  to  feed  eggs  to  chickens  at  any  age  because  of 
the danger  of  pullorum  disease!!  Yet  people  eat  eggs  every  day. 
Chicken leukemia  appears  to  be  transmitted  naturally  by  direct 
and indirect  contact.  fThere  is  considerable  evidence  that  this 
disease is  transmitted  through  the  egg. 
A food  experimenter,  Kossowitz  of  Vienna,  found  that  fresh 
eggs often  contain  molds,  yeasts  and  various  micro-organisms. 
Only twelve  per  cent  of  eggs  examined  were  entirely  free  from 
bacteria.  AH  eggs  are  strongly  open  to  suspicion.  When  hens 
are infected  with  white  diarrhoea,  their  eggs contain  the  germs  which 
produce  colitis  in  human  beings.  The  chief  reason  for  the  poor 
keeping qualities  lies  in  the  fact  that  the  eggs  become  infected 
before  they  are  laid,  but  it  is  a  proven  fact  that  germs  also  pene-
trate the  shell,  thus  setting  up  putrefaction.  It  is  my  firm  convic-
tion that  eggs  are  as  unfit  for  human  consumption  as  is  milk. 
My personal  experience  as  a  naturopathic  physician  and  a 
vegetarian allows  me  safely  to  state  that  eighty  per  cent  or  more 
of my  practice  has  been  devoted  to  healing  misled  people—indivi-
duals who  deeply  desired  to  live  the  natural  way  and  considered 
themselves to  be  honestly  health-minded,  but  who,  through  their 
consumption  of  animal  by-products,  had  fallen  heir  to  the  many 
ills these  killer-foods  will  produce. 
May I  further  reveal  that  I  have  seen  children  trained  as  true 
vegetarians  from  birth—either  on  mother's  milk  or  nut  milks  and 
without the  use  of  eggs  — appear  invariably  stronger,  more 
active and  less  susceptible  to  childhood  diseases  and,  in  fact,  free 
to associate  with  non-vegetarian  children  afflicted  with  the  ills  of 
bad feeding;  furthermore,  they  more  successfully  repelled  disease 
invasions than  flesh-eaters  or  "  lacto-arians." 
•••See Otto  Carque's  Vital  Fads  About  Food. 
•fRead The  Animal  Kingdom—A  Reservoir  of  Diseases,  by  Julius  Gilbert 
White. 
15

[Page 18]
A research  recently  conducted  by  Mervyn  G.  Hardinge,  M.D., 
School  of  Medicine,  College  of  Medical  Evangelists,  Loma  Linda, 
Calif.,  among  88  flesh-eaters,  86  lacto-ovo-vegetarians  and  26  true 
(" pure  ")  vegetarians,  disclosed  that  there  is  little  difference  bet-
ween  the  three  groups  when  blood  analyses  are  compared.  It  was 
interesting  to  note  that  the  cholesterol  level  of  the  true  vegetarians 
was appreciably  lower  than  the  other  two  groups.  This  may  prove 
to be  important  if  the  relationship  between  cholesterol  and 
hardening  of  the  arteries  is  established.  From  the  facts  available, 
it would  seem  that  a  wisely  selected  vegetarian  diet  provides 
adequate  nutrition. 
My advice  to  all  of  you  who  are  striving  to  live  nature's  way  is 
to become  100%  vegetarians,  spurning  milk  and  eggs,  and  open 
the door  to  the  great  health  and  happiness  which  awaits  you. 
In my  book,  Vegetarian  Cookery,  I  have  endeavoured  to  bring  to 
the health-conscious  public,  menus  which  are  both  milk-free  and 
egg-free  and  yet  enhance  daily  living  with  epicurean  delights. 
It is  my  belief  that  everyone  should  be  or  become  a  "  raw-
fooder",  yet  I  have  no  quarrel  with  those  who  enjoy  cooked 
delicacies  providing  the  latter  are  free  from  taint  of  animal  by-
products.  One  day  these  enlightened  people  will  awaken  to  the 
fact  that  only  in  raw  food  will  they  receive  the  true  essence  of 
Life-giving qualities  which  nature  has  bestowed  in  each  raw  fruit 
or vegetable  so  lavishly  prepared  for  them. 
If you  are  a  pseudo-vegetarian,  begin  to-day  to  realize  the 
wealth  of  benefits  your  Creator  has  prepared  for  you  when  you 
dare  to  become  a  true  vegetarian  and  live  the  Genesis  way: 
*' Behold,  I  have  given  you  every  herb-bearing  seed,  which  is  upon 
the face  of  all  the  earth,  and  every  tree,  in  the  which  is  the  fruit 
of a  tree  yielding  seed;  to  you  it  shall  be  for  meat."  (Genesis  1: 29.) 
And  to  all  mothers  and  fathers-to-be,  I  urge  that  you  cleanse 
yourselves  and  prepare  to  become  the  progenitors  of  a  new  race 
of healthier  men  and  women,  free  from  the  taint  of  animalism 
and living  as  the  Creator  intended  in  the  light  of  the  coming 
Brotherhood  of  Man. 
Both  of  Dr.  Rotondi's  books,  Vegetarian  Cookery—151  pages, 
hard  cover,  fully  indexed,  $3.00—and  his  latest,  Your  Vegetarian 
Baby—80 pages,  soft  cover,  $2.00—are  available  by  ordering  direct 
from  The  Editor,  Vegetarian  News  Digest  (2146  Branden  Street, 
Los  Angeles  26,  California,  U.S.A.),  to  whom  we  are  grateful  for 
permission  to  reprint  the  above  article  from  the  Autumn,  1954, 
issue  of  VND.  A  copy  of  the  Autumn  issue  may  be  had  direct 
from  the  above  address  for  25  cents.  Also  available  is  Otto 
Carque's  Vital  Facts  About  Food,  for  $2.50  postpaid. 
16

[Page 19]
THE FIRST  DECADE:  1944-1954 
Elsie B.  Shrigley,  PRESIDENT,  THE  VEGAN  SOCIETY 
THE Vegan  Society  was  10  years  old  in  November,  1954;  thus  it 
is now  an  appropriate  time  to  look  back  and  assess  its  achieve-
ments and  to  remember  the  personalities  who  have  helped  its 
evolution. 
There  have  been  non-dairy  vegetarians  through  the  centuries 
(for example,  Socrates),  but  a  letter  written  by  Mr.  Leslie  Cross 
in the  Vegetarian  Messenger  pointing  out  the  ethics  of  non-dairy 
vegetarianism,  and  the  correspondence  that  followed  during  1943, 
roused the  conscience  of  some  lacto-vegetarians  and  led  to  the 
formation  of  The  Vegan  Society. 
I gave  up  dairy  produce  in  April,  1944,  about  the  same  time 
as Mr.  Donald  Watson  and  Mr.  and  Mrs.  Allan  Henderson.  I 
remember  that,  at  a  vegetarian  social  club  holiday  at  Minehead,  in 
August,  1944,  Mr.  Watson  and  I  discussed  the  necessity  of  co-
ordinating  the  non-dairy  vegetarians  and  decided  to  ask  The  Vege-
tarian Society  if  they  would  agree  to  the  formation  of  a  non-dairy 
group  within  the  Society  with  a  page  of  the  Vegetarian  News  for 
news and  views.  This  the  Executive  Committee  was  not  prepared 
to do  and  so  the  first  committee  met  at  the  Attic  Club  at  the 
beginning of  November,  1944,  to  discuss  the  name  and  formation 
of a  new  society—present  were  Mr.  Donald  Watson,  Mr.  and  Mrs. 
Allan Henderson,  Mr.  Haffenden,  Mrs.  Elsie  B.  Shrigley  and  Mr. 
Paul Spencer  with  Mme.  Pataleewa  as  an  interested  observer. 
There  was  a  list  of  suggested  names  for  the  new  society,  the  word 
" vegan  " was  chosen  because  it  was  strong  and  short. 
Mr. Donald  Watson  became  the  first Secretary  and  Editor.  The 
first Vegan  Bulletin  was  published  by  the  end  of  November,  1944. 
The first  printed  Vegan  came  out  in  the  spring  of  1946.  The 
London  Group  was  founded  in  July,  1945. 
The first  Annual  General  Meeting  was  held  on  November  15th, 
1945. Mr.  Donald  Watson  remained  Secretary  and  Editor  until 
the Annual  General  Meeting,  1946,  when  he  became  the  first 
President  of  the  Society.  Mr.  Allan  Henderson  then  became  the 
new Editor  and  Secretary.  During  this  period  the  new  Committee 
Members  included  Mr.  Barry  Green,  Mrs.  T.  Rawls,  Mr.  Ber-
nard Drake  and  later  Mrs.  M.  Drake,  Miss  Daisy  Maclachlan 
and Miss  Amy  Little.  Mrs.  Fay  Henderson  published  her  Vegan 
Recipes at  this  time  and  this  was  followed  by  a  recipe  pamphlet 
by Mrs.  M.  Rawls. 
The next  President  of  the  Society  (1947)  was  Mr.  William 
Collier. During  this  year  the  first  rules  of  the  Society  were  for-
mulated.  Dr.  Weiner,  Mr.  Frank  Mayo  and  Mr.  Leslie  Cross 
joined the  Committee.  The  Committee  had  intensive  week-ends 
of work  during  this  period  with  its  country  Members.  The  post  of 
17

[Page 20]
Secretary,  Treasurer  and  Editor  proved  too  exacting  and  so  the 
work  was  divided:  Mr.  Bruce  Litten  became  Secretary  and  Trea-
surer;  Mr.  Allan  Henderson  remained  Editor  for  a  time,  until  he 
was succeeded  by  Mrs.  Sheila  Johnstone. 
Mr. Frank  Mayo  became  President  in  1949  and  in  1950,  the 
post of  Secretary  and  Treasurer  was  divided  with  Mrs.  H.  Honey-
sett as  Secretary  and  Mrs.  Eve  Rowland  as  Treasurer.  Also  the 
rules  of  the  Society  were  revised  and  the  object  of the  Society  and 
the word  "  veganism  "  were  clearly  defined.  Different  conditions 
for  Members  and  Associates  were  laid  down.  (Slight  alterations 
and additions  to  the  rules  were  passed  at  the  A.G.M.  in  1954) 
Mr. Frank  Mayo  died  in  1951  and  the  Society  lost  a  great 
President  and  vital  personality.  Mrs.  Elsie  B.  Shrigley  became  the 
new President  at  the  A.G.M.,  November,  1951. 
In the  same  year  Miss  Vera  Stanley  Alder  became  Editor  of 
The Vegan  until  1953,  when  she  decided  to  live  abroad  part  of 
the year.  Mr.  John  Heron,  the  present  Editor,  took  over  in  May, 
1953. An  Editorial  Board  was  formed  in  1952  to  help  over  an 
interim  period.  Mrs.  Eve  Rowlands  resigned  Treasurership  and 
Mr.  Leslie  Warren  succeeded  her. 
Committee  Members  have  included:  Mrs.  L.  Cross,  Mr.  Donald 
Cross,  Mr.  D.  Burton,  Miss  Churchward,  Mr.  E.  Hewlett,  Mrs. 
K. Mayo,  Mr.  Alex  Martin,  Mr.  Cameron  James,  Miss  A.  Ryerson, 
Miss Mabel  Simmons;  and  up  to  date,  Mrs.  S.  Coles,  Miss  C. 
Harvey,  Mr.  G.  McLinley,  Mr.  A.  Clark,  Mr.  J.  Sanderson  and 
Mrs.  J.  Arnaldi,  who  has  very  kindly  lent  her  flat  for  committee 
meetings.  It  was  decided  to  hold  these  in  London  to  save  exces-
sive travelling. 
During  1945-47,  the  Society  had  annual  conferences  with  a 
purpose,  to  discuss  milk  substitutes,  health  and  ethics  with  a 
number  of  speakers  at  each  meeting.  The  Society  has  had  also 
cookery  demonstrations,  dinners  and  socials.  A  Health  Council 
was formed  to  put  the  health  of  vegans  on  a  scientific  basis  and 
Dr. Frank  Wokes  has  done  very  valuable  work  in  this  direction. 
He has  been  helped  by  Dr.  Sinclair  of  Oxford  Nutritional  Labora-
tory.  The  Society  has  had  a  stall  at  the  Animals  Fair  since  1947 
and has  done  valuable  propaganda  thereby.  In  the  summer  of 
1954, the  Society  published  a  comprehensive  Trade  List  which  it 
is hoped  will  be  followed  by  many  more. 
The  Vegan  Society  is  acknowledged  as  a  national  society  as 
it has  members  all  over  the  British  Isles  and  abroad.  It  is  affiliated 
to the  I.V.U.  and  has  taken  part  in  the  International  Congresses 
since the  war—in  1947,  1950  and  1953.  Mr.  Donald  Watson  gave 
an address  on  veganism  at  Wycliffe  College  in  1947,  and  this  was 
published  as  a  pamphlet.  Mr.  A.  Henderson  represented  The 
Vegan  Society  in  1950,  in  Holland,  and  Mrs.  M.  Drake  and  Mrs. 
E. B.  Shrigley  were  delegates  in  1953,  in  Sweden,  where  a  paper 
on the  activities  and ideals  of  the  vegan  was  read  and  our  literature 
distributed. 
18

[Page 21]
Besides the  London  Group,  groups  were  formed  in  Bristol, 
the Midlands  and  Yorkshire.  In  the  new Constitution  of  1950,  they 
became Branches  of  the  Society. 
This history  of  the  Society  would  not  be  complete  without 
realizing the  value  of  the  work  done  during  the  past  10  years.  It 
is not  easy  to  found  an  ethical  society.  The  first  Committees  were 
formed of  individualists,  all  with  high  ideals  but  with  divergent 
views on  how  to  attain  them.  The  Society  crystallised  its  policy 
as it  went along  and  has  emerged  in  1954  with  a  sound  constitution 
defining the  aim  of  the  Society  and  the  word  "  veganism  ".  It  has 
an harmonious  and  hard  working  committee.  The  word  "  vegan  " 
is now  known  and  used  internationally  and  in  scientific  societies. 
At the  beginning  the  Vegan  Society  was  faced  with  antagonism 
from  the  vegetarian  movement  through  misunderstandings.  Now 
we work  in  harmony  with  the  Vegetarian  Society  and  the  London 
Vegetarian  Society  and  join  with  them  and  the  I.V.U.  in  con-
. ferences  at  which  humanitarian  bodies  discuss  difficulties  and 
policies. 
The Vegan  Society  took  part  in  a  broadcast  on  "  Vege-
tarianism "  and  aroused  considerable  interest. 
Now well founded  and  established,  the  Society can  look  forward 
to ever  greater  vitality  and  expansion  in  the  years  to  come. 
THE VEGETARIAN  BROADCAST 
Muriel Drake 
VEGANS  and  vegetarians  alike  will  have  heard  Jenifer  Wayne's 
broadcast  on  "  Vegetarianism  ",  on  November  26th,  with  mixed 
feelings, but  at  least  it  will  have  given  all  those  who  heard 
it an  opportunity  to  consider  whether  they  are  justified  in  con-
tinuing to  look  on  flesh  foods  either  as  a  necessity  of  life  or  as 
ethically right. 
It was  unfortunate  that  the  time  devoted  to  the  vegan  aspect 
came first,  for  I  would  venture  to  suggest  that  it  would  have  been 
better,  from  all points  of view,  to  begin  with  vegetarianism  and  the 
fleshless diet  rather  than  to  plunge  right  away  into  the  still  more 
idealistic path  which  vegans  tread.  It  probably  meant  that  many 
who might  otherwise  have  been  quite  interested  and  intrigued  to 
learn something  about  veganism  after  listening  to  the  way  of  the 
vegetarian,  will  have  switched  off  without  hearing  much  about 
either.  However,  let  us  look  at  the  constructive  side  of the  broad-
cast, for  undoubtedly  Jenifer  Wayne  had  given  it  a  great  deal  of 
thought,  judging  by  her  remarks  at  the  beginning  and  in  between 
the other  speakers.  She  obviously  tried  to  be  as  impartial  as 
possible and  to  treat  the  subject  from  all  angles. 
Those  who  stated  the  case  for  veganism  were  our  President, 
Mrs. E.  B.  Shrigley  and  two  members  of  the  committee  who  have 
vegan children—Mr.  Leslie  Cross  and  Mrs.  Serena  Coles.  Mrs. 
19

[Page 22]
Shrigley  mentioned  the  various  reasons  why  people  adopt  veganism 
in the  first  place—health,  the  ethical  aspect  and  the  spiritQal  point 
of view.  The  ethical  angle  she  had  already  stated  by  mentioning 
the different  forms  of  cruelty  involved  and  Mr.  Cross  linked  up 
the ethical  and  spiritual  aspects.  He  believed  that  as  far  as  pos-
sible we  should  be  given  freedom  to  live  our  lives  in  the  way  we 
wish to  live  them,  according  to  our  inward  life  and  that  we  must 
grant  freedom  to  others  to  live  their  lives  as  they  wish  to  live 
them  (here  he  stressed  the  fact  that  in  the  word  "  others"  he 
included  animals).  He  felt  that  the  animals  and  ourselves  were 
on this  earth  in  order  to  evolve  through  experience  to  higher  levels 
of living.  When  asked  about  the  difficulty  of extra  sensitivity,  he 
replied  that  he,  as  a  vegan,  must  not  let  sensitivity  break  him 
down;  he  must  be  tempered  and  not  broken  through  it. 
Mrs.  Coles  ended  with  the  reassuring  note  that  vegans  were 
definitely  not  out  to  convert  everybody.  It  was  an  individual 
matter  which  must  come  from  within  one's  own  being,  from  one's  • 
own reasoning  with  things.  She  said  most  emphatically:  "  Do 
not change  your  ways  of  living  in  a  rapid  way;  do  everything 
gradually  and  if  you  feel  that  the  temptation  is  too  great  and  you 
can't  stop  eating  something—you  want  to  go  back  to  it—well,  go 
back  to  it." 
This  article  would  be  far  too  long  if  I  gave  details  of  the 
answers  from  the  lacto-vegetarians—no  doubt  that  will  be  done 
in the  vegetarian  journals—but  I  will  just  mention  their  names 
and their  particular  approach.  Athletics  and  economics  were  ably 
dealt  with  by  Mr.  Cyril  Oliver  and  Mr.  Ronald  Lightowler  respec-
tively.  Dr.  Bertrand  Allinson  put  the  case  for  elderly  people  who 
turned  vegetarian  late  in  life,  and  Mrs.  Lynn  Harris  spoke  for  the 
younger  generation.  Mrs.  Paul  had  quite  a  lot  to  say  about  vege-
tarian  diet,  especially  the  practice  (which  she  deplored)  of  making 
a nut  roast  in  the  shape  of  a  chicken. 
The  final  note  was  struck  by  Dr.  Frank  Wokes,  who  has  been 
responsible  for  the  experiments  and  tests  on  vegans  at  Oxford. 
Unfortunately  (although  of  necessity  through  lack  of  time),  the 
broadcast  was  only  a  small  section  of  the  sum  total  of  remarks 
made  at  this  speaker's  interview  with  Jenifer  Wayne,  as  it was  with 
the others.  Dr.  Wokes  was  asked  to  concentrate  mainly  on  fhe 
Oxford  experiments  to  the  exclusion  of  the  ethical  aspect  and  so  as 
a result  he  spoke  entirely  from  the  scientific  point  of  view.  This 
does  not,  of  course,  consider  veganism  as  a  whole,  and  although 
Dr. Wokes  put  forward  the  view  that  economic  necessity  may 
compel  us  in  the  near  future  to  draw  nearer  to  the  Eastern  peoples 
as regards  their  much  lower  intake  of  animal  protein—which,  he 
added,  "  may  not  be  such  a  bad  thing  for  us  after  all"—yet  the 
real reason  why  the  majority  of  vegans  adopt  their  particular  way 
of life  was  not  alluded  to. 
The  ethical  aspect  puts  a  different  emphasis  on  the  whole 
idea  of  veganism,  for  the  scientific  viewpoint  alone  tends  to  lay 
20

[Page 23]
rather  too  much  stress  on  the  term  "deficiency  symptoms".  Now  it 
is realised  that  all  vegans  do  not  assimilate  the  protein  they  eat, 
but there  are  so  many  factors  to  be  taken  into  consideration.  It 
was, I  think,  unfortunate  that  the  other  factors  were not  mentioned 
in this  part  of  the  broadcast,  as  the  half-hour  ended  on  rather  a 
negative note. 
There  is  no  need  for  us  to  end  on  a  depressing  note,  for  those 
who really  have  the  urge  from within  to  adopt  a  vegan  diet  (which 
should,  let  me  emphasise,  be  done  very  gradually,  to  give  the  body 
a chance  to  adjust  itself),  will  not  be  disheartened  by  the  negative 
approach.  Rather  will  they  be  encouraged  to  experiment  them-
selves with  the  diet  and  learn  how  to  adjust  the  body  to  a  more 
idealistic  way  of  living,  so  as  to  pave  the  way  for  future  genera-
tions of  vegans. 
UNDERSTANDING 
Beatrice Fenner 
UNDERSTANDING  is  a silken  thread, 
Woven of  love,  and  of  love's  fulfilment 
Through  the  joyous  outpouring  of  itself. 
Understanding  is  a  golden  flame 
That  lights  up  darkened  places— 
A completeness  that,  seeks ever  to  dispel  emptiness. 
Understanding  asks  naught  but  to  spend  itself  endlessly 
Upon  that  which  requires  it— 
Demands  naught  save  but  to  pour  itself  out 
In deep  and  boundless  giving. 
Yet Understanding,  if  it  be  truly  such, 
Gives not  alone  for  the  pure  joy  of  giving, 
Outrushing,  and  o'erspilling  itself  in  shapeless  ecstasy, 
But gives  thoughtfully,  with  purpose,  and  in  fixed  design. 
And,  delicately  sensing  its  destinations, 
The  extent  of  its  requirements, 
Carefully  choosing  the  vestments  it  must  wear. 
The certain  words  to  speak, 
It poises,  listening  for  the  call 
That  bids  it  come  on  swift  and  happy  feet. 
Understanding  is  an  awareness; 
At once  a  stillness,  and  a  tumultuous  song; 
A warmth,  a  tenderness,  lofty  places, 
Lowly and  humble  things; 
A prayer,  a  tear,  round  laughter—all  in  one. 
Great  moving  sea, 
Born of  the  very  need  it  seeks  to  fill, 
Serene outpouring  of  Infinity  Itself, 
Gently yearning^forth  to  encompass  all  things 
And draw  theminto  one. 
21

[Page 24]
NORTH  AMERICAN  TOUR 
John Heron 
MY  WIFE  and  I  have  recently  completed  an  extensive  tour  of 
North  America  in  our  own  car.  It  was  our  honeymoon,  a 
camping  expedition  and  a  business  trip  of  three  kinds:  to  recount 
it all  would  indeed  consume  more  space  than  The  Vegan  can 
afford.  However,  I  have  made  a  few  varied  extracts  from  our 
travel  notes  and  now  present  these,  without  excessive  formality 
or introduction,  to  the  indulgent  reader. 
IN SALT  LAKE  CITY 
We motored  into  Salt  Lake  City  late  at  night  and  instantly 
formed  an  impression  of  a  bright  metropolis  which—clean,  orderly, 
with a  spacious  rectilineal  plan  and  brilliantly  illuminated  modern 
elevations—exudes  an  air  of  righteous  prosperity.  The  extra-
ordinary  fortitude,  endurance  and  determination  of  the  Mormon 
pioneers  who  settled  in  the  valley  in  1847,  has  become  transmuted 
in the  intervening  century  into  an  unseen  force  that  permeates  the 
physical  and  "  psychic  " structure  of  the  city  and  whose  presence 
is registered  as  an atmosphere  quite  unlike  that  of  any  other  centre 
in the  country.  Here,  however,  vegetarian  and  health  movements 
have  gained  but  little  ground.  The  dominant  local  religion*,  the 
successful  management  of  corporeal  affairs  by its  adherents  and  the 
peculiar  remoteness  of the  area—high  in  the  Rocky  Mountain  chain 
between  the  desert  and  the  Great  Salt  Lake  to  the  west  and  north-
west, and  the  beautiful  Wasatch  and  Uinta  Mountains  to  the  east 
—have  combined  to  afford  but  little  opportunity  for  the  sponsors 
of reformed  dietetic  habits  to  attain  a  hearing. 
Nevertheless,  a  start  has  been  made,  for  here  through  the  ser-
vices of  a  new  friend,  Hans  Berhold,  we  were  introduced  to  the 
Secretary  and  members  of a  vegetarian  health  club  with the  unusual 
name  "  Garden  of  Doers  ".  This  embryonic  association  provides 
a focal  point  for  all  matters  relating  to  diet  and  rational  healing 
and inclines  also  to  broad  metaphysical  and  religious  discussions 
in which  the  deeper  side  of  the  healthy  life  is  touched.  In  the 
•Joseph  Smith;  the  Mormon  prophet,  received  for  his  followers,  in  1833, 
a revelation  designed  as  an  aid  to  temporal  salvation.  Among  general 
exhortations  for  wholesome  and  sober  living  there  occurs  a passage  in  which 
the flesh  of  animals  is  ordained  by  "the  Lord"  for  the  use  of  man  "with 
thanksgiving."  Despite  the  amendment  that  such  food  is  to  be  used 
sparingly  and  preferably  "only  in  times  of  winter,  or  of  cold,  or  of  famine," 
the  basic  sanction  given  in  the  prior  clause  tends  on  the  one  hand  to 
invalidate  the  revelation  in  the  minds  of  vegetarians  and  on  the  other  to 
cause  a  certain  prejudice  against  vegetarianism  in  the  minds  of  Mormons.  So 
in this  matter  we  are  implicated  in  an  important  issue  which  concerns  the 
evaluation  of  religious  inspiration  by  referring  to  its  dietetic  teachings; 
although,  of  course,  these  must  be  considered  with  many  other  aspects  of  a 
revelation  in  order  truly  to  estimate  its  merit. 
22

[Page 25]
home of  the  Secretary,  Miss  Jones,  we  spent  an  agreeable  evening 
with the  club;  conversation  ranged,  fortunately,  over  a  variety  of 
subjects from  food  to  philosophy,  and  the  importance  of  veganism, 
with which  our  hosts  had  not  yet  become  acquainted  in  full  detail, 
was introduced.  The  Garden  of  Doers,  though  it  has  existed  but 
a short  time,  has  noble  aims.  It  is  virtually  alone  in  its  ideals 
in a  peculiar  and  remote  region  of  the  country  and  consequently 
we hasten  to  wish  it  every  possible  success. 
Here, also,  Hans  took  us  to  the  home  of Fletch  and  Leola—Mr. 
and Mrs.  H.  C.  Flesher—joint  editors  of  Progressive  Independent, 
a four-part,  non-profit  monthly  publication  whose  purpose 
is "to  bring  about  an  understanding  and  a  feeling  of brotherhood 
and peace  between  all  races,  creeds,  nations  and  colours,  through 
each having  a  full  understanding  of  the  others'  beliefs,  objectives, 
methods  of reasoning,  conditions,  doctrines,  etc.,  without  destroying 
any other  by  force,  that  every  man  woman  and  child  may  come 
to a  full  realization  that  each  is  his  brothers'  and  sisters'  keeper, 
not their  destroyer."  The  paper  is  an  international  compendium 
that includes,  World  Health  Advocate,  World  Peace  Advocate, 
General Welfare  (western  hemisphere  edition)  and  Woman's  Sphere 
—Her Destiny.  For  its  pioneering  spirit,  its  faithful  reflection  of 
true ideals  and  for  its  devotion  to  honesty  and  the  pursuit  of 
purpose,  this  publication  can  be  strongly  recommended.  I  notice 
that the  World  Health  Advocate  for  July,  1954,  includes  Dr. 
Govindarajulu's  brief  but  effective  advocacy  of  veganism  entitled 
" The  Natural  Food  of  Man." 
Fletch and  Leola,  after  full,  varied and  prominent  lives,  married 
in 1949,  and  now  live  in  a  small  cabin  some  miles  from  Salt  Lake 
City up  Emigration  Canyon,  whence  the  Mormon  pioneers  and 
explorers,  after  severe  hardships  during  their  great  trek  over  the 
Rocky Mountains,  emerged  into  Salt  Lake  Valley.  In  the  clear 
atmosphere  of  this  secluded  canyon,  yet  with  limited  space,  limited 
funds  and inadequate  printing  machinery,  the  Fleshers  devote  them-
selves with  faith,  courage  and  persistence  to  the  work  which  they 
know is  theirs  and  thus  reflect  in  a  new  and  much  more  compre-
hensive mode  the  pioneer  spirit  of  their  forebears.  Mormons  by 
religious affiliation,  yet  of  the  most  liberal  kind,  their  purpose  is 
not to  proselytize  any  religious  belief  or  denomination,,  or  any 
political or  economic  doctrine,  over  any  other. 
It seemed,  as  we  sat  between  the  cabin  and  the  waters  of 
Emigration  Canyon,  shaded  by  a  grove  of  low  trees  from  the 
brilliant afternoon  sun,  conversing  on  those  themes  which  in  their 
fullness  belong  to  the  future,  that  a  germinal  presence  of  the  spirit 
of a  new  age—of  which  veganism  shall  surely  be  an  integral  part 
—was invoked  in  one  of  its  earliest  and  remote  outposts.  Here 
again in  the  midst  of  the  corrupted  brilliance  of  our  technocratic 
civilization the  drama  of  "  beginnings  " is  enacted—a  drama  with 
which, in  another  mode,  the  founders  of  the  Vegan  Society  are 
undoubtedly  familiar. 
23

[Page 26]
GREEN  AND  GOLD 
Some  miles  south  of Reno,  the  road  climbs  high  into  the  moun-
tains,  rises  up  to  Mount  Rose  summit  at  9,000  feet  and  then  com-
mences  a  winding  descent  towards  the  south.  Halfway  down  we 
caught  our  first  and  most  impressive  view  of  California.  Standing 
beside  lofty  pines  and  redwoods,  we  looked  out  far  below  upon 
the clear,  deep  blue  waters  of  Lake  Tahoe  which  lies  over  a  mile 
high,  calm  and  beautiful,  among  the  towering  Sierra  Nevada.  We 
rested  here  for  a day,  camping  in  a  forest  site  above  Emerald  Bay 
and then  commenced  a  day's  drive  through  the  Tahoe  Valley  and 
the foothills  of  the  Sierra  Nevada  out  into  the  Sacramento  Valley, 
the broad  level  central  area  of  the  state. 
The  hot  and  dry,  green  and  golden  countryside—the  grass  is 
gold,  the  trees  are  green—is  everywhere  utilized  by  commercial 
organisation.  Some  7,000,000  acres  are  irrigated  by  various 
modern  projects,  and  in  all  with  about  one  quarter  of  its  area  in 
farming  land,  California  is  largely  an  argicultural  state.  Field 
crops  led  by  cotton,  truck,  garden  and  staple  vegetables,  rank  first 
in value  of  crops  raised;  fruits  and  grapes  second.  Oranges  are 
shipped  throughout  the  year  and  their  annual  financial  yield  is 
greater  than  the  output  of  the  state's  gold  mines.  Here  most  of 
the country's  raisins  are  produced.  We  ourselves  made  calls  in 
Sacramento,  centre  of  an  immensely  fertile  argicultural  district 
where  most  of  the  sweet  prunes  in  the  United  States  are  grown: 
in Fresno,  of  Fresno  County,  where  more  grapes  and  figs are  raised 
than  in  any  other  American  county;  and  then  crossed  the  Diablo 
range  to  the  Pacific  coast. 
DR.  KATHARINE  NIMMO.  D.C.,  R.N. 
On the  very  fringe  of the  seething  productivity  of  this  agricul-
tural  emporium,  in  the  small  coastal  town  of  Oceano,  which  is 
separated  from  the  ocean  only  by  the  rolling  golden  sand  dunes, 
we sought  out  Dr.  Katharine  Nimmo,  D.C.,  R.N.  Outside  her 
low, one-story  home,  a  sign  staked  into  the  ground  bore  her  name 
and the  simple  statement  "  Healing  by  Drugless  Methods."  This 
sign, in  contrast  to  the  feverish  exploitation  everywhere  so  domi-
nant,  seemed  to  claim  another  outpost  for  the  values  of  restraint 
and saiiity. 
An ardent  humanitarian,  Dr.  Nimmo  has  been  a  vegan  for 
about  16  years  and  engages  in  ceaseless  correspondence  with 
societies  and  individuals  throughout  the  world  in  order  to  extend 
and promote  the  influence  of  humanitarian  ideals.  She  writes  a 
regular  vegan  column  for  The  American  Vegetarian-Hygienist  and 
distributes  our  magazine  and  literature  wherever  possible.  I  was 
glad to  thank  personally  a  generous  contributor  to  our  library  and 
privileged  to  speak  with  one  whose  life  has  been  so  wholeheartedly 
devoted  to  the  humanitarian  cause.  Dr.  Nimmo  spoke  optimisti-
cally about  the  slow, but  noticeable  increase  in humanitarian,  health 
24

[Page 27]
and peace  movements  in  the  world.  She  gave  us  an  account  of 
the vegetarian  and  hygienic  movements  in  the  United  States  and 
outlined the  position  of  veganism.  These  matters,  however,  I 
shall take  up  independently  towards  the  end  of  this  article. 
To  Los  ANGELES 
After  a  delightful  overnight  stay,  with  a  notebook  filled  with 
interesting  and important  names  and  addresses  of vegans  and others 
given us  by  Dr.  Nimmo,  we  motored  some  200  miles  along  the 
coast road  to  Los  Angeles,  "  the  metaphysical  capital"  of  Cali-
fornia.  The  city  includes  Hollywood  and  is  continuous  with  many 
neighbouring  communities:  Beverly  Hills,  Burbank,  Glendale,  Long 
Beach, Pasadena  and  so  on.  The  whole  constitutes  an  immense 
sprawling  mass  that  suffers  from  the  disagreeable  affliction  of 
"smog":  the  waste  products  of  automobiles  and  recently  con-
structed  industrial  undertakings  are  trapped  within  the  ring  of 
mountains  that  embrace  the  Los  Angeles  metropolitan  area  and 
combine  with  the  interaction  of  natural  elements  to  form  a  gaseous 
and noxious  pall  perceptible  at  all  times  as  a  veil  that  limits  and 
obscures  vision  of  the  surrounding  hills.  Smarting  eyes,  minor 
afflictions  and, some  claim,  graver  disturbances  are  to  be  attributed 
to this  phenomenon.  The  pleasure  and  interest  of  visiting  Los 
Angeles was,  physiologically  speaking,  somewhat  vitiated  by  such 
a pervasive  pollution  of  atmospheric  conditions. 
However,  we  were fortunate  to  have  an  invitation  to  stay  in  the 
hills near  Tujunga  some  miles  north  of the  city in a cabin  belonging 
to Thurman  Frick,  a  friend  newly  found  at  a  meeting  of  the  Los 
Angeles Faithist  Group  on  the  day  of our  arrival,  and  a  vegetarian. 
From this  retreat,  in  a  higher,  clearer  atmosphere,  we  were  able  to 
make periodic  sallies  into  the  metropolis. 
DR.  PIETRO  ROTONDI,  D.C.,  N.D. 
On the  recommendation  of  Dr.  Nimmo,  we  three  arranged  to 
attend one  of  the  Tuesday  evening  dinner  parties  given  regularly 
by Dr.  Pietro  Rotondi,  a  leading  Los  Angeles  practitioner  of 
natural  methods  of  healing,  at  his  home  in  Hollywood.  At  the 
appropriate  time,  and  among  agreeable  company,  we  found  our-
selves enjoying  a  delectable  vegan  meal  which  the  Doctor  himself 
prepared  and  which  he  most  generously  served,  with  infectious 
joviality. Of  Sicilian  origin,  Dr.  Rotondi  brings  a  Mediterranean 
flare to  the  vegan  cuisine:  at  a  later  and  more  intimate  dinner  at 
his home,  where  he  lives  alone  since  his  wife  died,  we  realized 
again new  and  pleasurable  possibilities  in  foods  derived solely  from 
the vegetable  kingdom  when  these  are  prepared  under  the  influence 
of a  liberal  and  imaginative  mind. 
Carefree,  individualistic,  uncompromising  on  dietetic  matters. 
Dr. Rotondi's  principal  concern  is  to  establish  vegetarianism  and 
natural  wholesome  ways  of  living.  He  has  been  a  strict  vegetarian 
since 1918,  and  has  consistently  advocated  the  same  regime  to 
25

[Page 28]
patients  and  inquirers.  His  buoyant  temperament  and  well-filled 
frame  cause  the  dietetically  ignorant  to  accuse  him  of  "  cheating  ". 
Yet apart  from  honey,  whose  use  he  recommends,  his  kitchen  uten-
sils have  been  untouched  by  animal  substances  of  any  kind  for  over 
30 years. 
His basic  advocacy  is:  "  Live  upon  fruits,  leafy  vegetables, 
nuts,  tubers,  legumes  and  other  vegetation;  spurn  animal  sub-
stances,  candy,  nicotine  and  alcohol—for  this  is  the  Law  which 
will redeem  practically  every  living  individual  from  all  disease 
and trouble  if  he  accepts  and  follows  it  with  an  open  mind  and 
without  fear  of  opposition."  And  in  essence  his  approach  is 
religious:  "  We  are  here  on  earth  for  a  purpose:  to  gain  self-
knowledge  and  self-mastery  and  to  be  of  service  to  mankind. 
Therefore  it  is  useless  for  us  to  seek  happiness  within  ourselves 
as well  as  with  our  neighbours  and  with  nations  and  races,  unless 
we first  purify  our  bodies  and  minds  by  eating  clean  and  health-
giving  foods  such  as  nature  intended." 
These  quotations  are  from  the  introduction  to  Dr.  Rotondi's 
Vegetarian Cookery.  This,  and  another  of  his  books  entitled  Your 
Vegetarian Baby,  I  have  reviewed  elsewhere  in  this  issue.  And  we 
also have  great  pleasure  in  including  an  article  by  Dr.  Rotondi 
himself. 
HOLLYWOOD 
It was,  strangely  enough,  at  Dr.  Rotondi's  that  we  received  an 
invitation  to  lunch  at  Paramount  Studios.  Leaving  the  restaurant, 
where  a  glitter  of  stars  from  the  Hollywood  heaven  acknowledge 
the need  for  nourishment,  we  strolled  round  the  grounds  and  for 
some  time  watched  the  new  Vistavision  cameras  shooting  a  scene 
from  Lucie  Gallante,  starring  Jane  Wyman.  A  strange  spectacle  of 
technics,  confusion  and  corrupted  values;  the  high-powered 
Hollywood  entertainment  machine  skates  too  much  upon  the  sur-
face  of  our  civilization  to  call  forth  any  sustaining  interest. 
In relation  to  our  particular  interests,  it  is  sufficient  to  say  in 
passing  that  because  of  the  desirability  of  prolonging  their  strength 
and vigour,  beauty  of  shape  and  feature  as  far  as  possible  into 
middle  age  (and  beyond),  many  stars  have  become  followers  of the 
relatively  enlightened,  but  omnivoristic  teachings  of dietician  Gaye-
lord Hauser.  In  justice  to  Hauser,  it  must  be  said  that  apart  from 
his approbation  of  flesh-eating,  his  books  and  articles  have  reached 
thousands  who  might  otherwise  have  never  heard  of  the  importance 
of whole-grain  cereals,  raw  sugar,  fruit  and  vegetable  juices,  salads 
and so  on. 
AROUND  ESCONDIDO 
Escondido,  in  the  heart  of  San  Diego  County,  is  the  health 
mecca  of  southern  California.  At  an  average  elevation  of  700  feet, 
above  and  beyond  the  occasional  coastal  fogs,  it  lies  among  low 
rolling  hills  that  are  midway  between  the  Pacific  coast  and  the 
26

[Page 29]
wooded mountain  ranges  of  Palomar,  Cuyamaca  and  Laguna.  It 
is famed  for  its  equable  sub-tropical  climate,  nearly  ideal  tempera-
ture range,  abundant  sunshine  and  exceedingly  fertile  soils. Spread 
out upon  the  floor  of  a  hidden  valley  it  overflows  the  encircling 
deep green  hillsides  where  avocado  and  citrus  orchards  abound, 
and dissolves  into  undulating  countryside  where  occasional  villas 
blink beneath  a  brilliant  sun. 
Here we  visited  Dr.  Bernard  Jensen's  Hidden  Valley  Health 
Ranch.  This  gracious  ranch  house  at  one  time  belonged  to  Lord 
Somerville. We  found  it hidden  in  the  hills  at the  end of a  winding 
road a  few  miles  north-east  of  Escondido,  overlooking  a  long 
shallow valley.  Secluded  in  a  healthful,  peaceful  atmosphere, 
vacationers  and  patients  may  find  recreation  and  recovery  in  ideal 
surroundings.  From  the  patio  of  the  villa,  we  looked  across  to 
orchards  of oranges  and  grapefruits  and several  acres  of vegetables. 
All organically  grown,  these  foods  combine—as  in  most  places  of 
this kind—with  dairy  products  to  form  the  dietary  regime. 
It was  interesting,  and  agreeable,  to  see  round  a  Californian 
nature  cure  resort.  Dr.  Jensen  has  a  wide  experience  in  his  pro-
fession and  has  made  a  particular  study  of  iridology.  He  asked 
to be  remembered  through  us  to  his  friends  and  acquaintances  in 
this country.  And  as  we  talked,  it  was  clear,  that  although 
veganism plays  no  part  in  his  particular  approach,  he  is  making 
a significant  contribution  to  the  science  and  art  of  physical 
well-being. 
We passed  another  of  Escondido's  celebrated  health  resorts, 
Dr. James  McCeachen's  "  Hygienic  Haven"—where  a  vegan 
regime is  adopted—on  the  way  to  Pretoria  Valley  Ranch,  a  Nutri-
tional Research  Foundation  directed  by  Martin  Pretorius.  We 
arrived at  Pretoria  Valley  towards  the  end  of  the  afternoon.  Our 
gracious hostess  served  us  with  mint  tea  and  carob  cake  and 
explained that  in  essence  the  Foundation  desired  to  establish  a 
nucleus for  eliminating  wars,  for  founding  a  new  way  of  life  by 
cultivating  a  happy,  free  spirit  in  a  pure  body. 
Sociologically of  great  importance,  this  undertaking  is  satis-
.factorily advancing.  A  large  tract  of land  of variegated  topography 
has been  purchased:  Escondido  was  chosen  for  the  site  because 
of its  healthful  climate  and  the  possibility  of  growing  there  a  great 
variety of  fruits  and  vegetables  the  year  round.  An  agricultural 
programme  utilizing  organically  composted  soils  is  under  way. 
Several pleasing  Spanish  style  villas  with  adobe  bricks  and  red-
tiled roofs  have  been  built  on,  and  satisfactorily  integrated  with, 
the crests  and  hillsides  of  the  property.  Martin  Pretorius's  home 
—simple, elegant—on  an  elevated  site,  commands  a  sweeping  view 
across to  distant  mountains. 
Pretoria  • Valley Ranch  has  no  religious  affiliation,  nor  is  it  a 
sanitarium,  for  no  treatment  of  any  kind  is  given.  It  is  a  centre 
for nutritional  research,  for  educating  old  and  young  on  the  prin-
ciples of  better  nutrition  and  healthful  living,  a  pleasure  resort 
27

[Page 30]
for  those  on  holiday,  and  a  community.  With  respect  to  the  last, 
a $2,000  donation  confers  life-time  membership  on  husband  and 
wife and  entitles  them  to  build  their  home  on  the  Ranch,  or  to 
choose  a  spacious  lot  in  the  "  Life-time  Trailer  (Caravan)  Park  ", 
and also  to  avail  themselves  of the  organically  grown  foods.  There 
is no  dietetic  obligation  imposed  on  members,  but  of  course 
vegetarianism  is  the  norm. 
The  Ranch  does  not  offer  to  its  members  subsistence  in  return 
for  employment,  but  a  place  in  which  to  retire,  study,  vacation, 
or use  as  a  home  while  working  in  the  outside  world.  A  further 
aspect  of  the  project  is  a separate  commercial  corporation  that  will 
eventually  construct  a  motel,  restaurant,  commercial  trailer  park, 
service  station,  lunch  counter  and  sports  ground  on  a  corner  of 
the property  naturally  screened  by  a  low  hill  from  the  residential 
area.  In  this  way  it  is  hoped  to  attract  those  in  the  world  to  the 
centre  that  they  may  thus  become  acquainted  with  the  principles 
which  it  represents. 
Pretoria  Valley  is  undoubtedly  important  since,  on  a  basis  of 
sound  nutritional  principles—good  soil,  good  food,  good  health— 
implemented  under  competent  and  thorough  direction,  it  represents 
an interesting  phase  in  what  may  well  be  the  emergence  of  a  new 
form  of  social  organization,  the  keynote  of  which,  perhaps,  will  be 
" community".  Indeed,  standing  in  this  cerulean  climate, 
freshened  by  a  soft  breeze  which,  we  were  told,  always  wafts  down 
the valley  and  through  the  orchards  from  the  not  too  distant  ocean, 
amidst  a  profusion  of  organic  vegetation  and  in  the  presence  of 
those  made  happy  by  a  wholesome  life  in  beautiful  surroundings, 
we experienced  what  paradoxically  can  only  be  called  a  proleptic 
nostalgia  for  a  mode  of  living  yet  to  come  upon  this  earth,  and 
which  is  perhaps  difficult  for  even  the  most  imaginative  of  us  to 
conceive  in  all  its  fullness. 
A vegan  would  do  well  to  settle  near  Escondido—"  the  avo-
cado  capital  of  the  world."  The  avocado,  rich  in  fat  and  protein, 
is one  of  the  most  important  crops  in  the  county  and  occupies 
4,000  acres  in  the  neighbourhood  of  the  town  alone.  The  fuerte 
variety  is  the  most  important:  fuertes  are  harvested  during  the  late 
autumn,  winter  and  spring  seasons.  In  and  around  Escondido' 
there  are  also  nearly  1,000  acres  of walnuts,  and,  of course,  oranges 
and lemons  constitute  the  other  principal  tree  crops. 
But what  about  organic  cultivation?  A  mile  out  of town,  along 
Highway  395,  we  drew  up  at  a  large  stall  with  a  painted  sign: 
" Phil's  Organic  Products  ".  Here  Mr.  and  Mrs.  Phil  Arena  sell 
to the  public  a  rich  harvest  from  many  acres  of  organic  produce. 
Among  the  organically  grown  foods  heaped  on  the  tables  and 
shelves  there  were  corn,  tomatoes,  squash,  cucumbers,  beets,  beet 
greens,  turnips,  onions,  celery,  asparagus,  kale,  lettuce,  rodan, 
dandelions,  red  and  green  chard,  lemons,  oranges,  grapefruit, 
grapes,  quince,  peaches,  plums,  persimmons,  apples,  pears,  figs, 
dates,  prunes,  raisins  and  apricots.  There  can  be  few  places  where 
28

[Page 31]
such an  abundant  variety  of  organic  produce  can  be  obtained. 
Looking  at  this  overflow  from  the Escondido  cornucopia,  I  thought 
of those  of  us  in  England  who  would  appreciate  a  comprehensive 
dietary of  correctly  grown  food! 
NOT FOR  THE  SCEPTIC 
Before entering  San  Diego,  we  made  a  detour  up  the  "  High-
way of  the  Stars  " to  Palomar  Mountain.  Here  we  pitched  our 
tent in  a  spacious  cedar  grove  for  two  days  and  visited  the  obser-
vatory on  the  summit  where  the  200"  Hale  Telescope  is  housed. 
On our  way  down  the  mountain,  after  several  miles  of  hairpin 
turns, we  passed  a  driveway  entrance  beside  which  stood  a  large 
sigh: "ADAMSKI".  George  Adamski,  the  co-author  of  Flying 
Saucers Have Landed  (published  in  this  country  by  Werner  Laurie), 
was at  home  supervising  construction  work  on  his  new  property. 
Although  quite  unexpected,  we  sat  for  over  two  and  a  half  hours 
on a  shaded  patio  cut  out  of  the  hillside  with  our  sincere  and 
earnest host  who  told  us  of his  more  recent  experiences  of the  flying 
saucers. 
He informed  us  that  since  the  publication  of  his  first  book  he 
has travelled  in  space-craft  and  has  spoken  in  English  with  their 
occupants  who,  it  seems,  are  extra-terrestrial  beings,  dwellers  on 
another  sphere  where  a  higher  philosophy  and  mode  of  life  prevail. 
Their religion,  he  said,  is  manifest  in  their  daily  lives  in  universal 
forms of government,  in  universal  peace,  in  true  harmlessness  and 
in vegetarianism.  Masters  and  manipulators  of the  ceaseless  flux  of 
cosmic forces  that  interpenetrate  their  sphere,  they  live  perpetually 
in the  present  moment,  in  the  creative  "now",  where  time  is 
absorbed in  a  realization  of,  and  atonement  with,  Eternal  Presence. 
Naturally,  to  the  sceptic,  this  all  seems  too  good  to  be  true.  But 
despite the  many  and  varied  problems  which  appertain  to  eluci-
dating the  precise  origin  and  modes  of  manifestation  of  the  flying 
saucers, there  have  been  too  many  independent,  responsible  yet 
corroborative  reports  of  their  presence  within  the  atmosphere  of 
this earth  for  the  unprejudiced  to  doubt  their  existence,  whatever 
the more  detailed  implications  of  this  fact  may  be. 
BAJA CALIFORNIA 
After  a  brief  stay  in  San  Diego,  where  we  received  delightful 
hospitality from  Mrs.  Elizabeth  Griffin,  also a  generous  contributor 
to our  library,  we  took  the  ferry  to Coronado  Island  and  the  Silver 
Strand,  a  long  narrow  peninsula  running  parallel  with  the  coast. 
We picnicked  on  the  sand  looking  out  over  the  Pacific,  and a  short 
time later  we  drove  into  the  Mexican  border  town  of  Tijuana. 
With streets  cluttered  with  overloaded  and  over-elaborated  stores 
and stalls,  seething  with  avaricious  vendors  of  every  kind  of 
product  that  is  "  typically  Mexican  ";  Tijuana  has  prostituted  itself 
to the  curiosity  and  spending  power  of  American  sightseers.  In 
strong contrast,  however,  is  the  clean,  clear  atmosphere  and 
29

[Page 32]
appearance  of  the  desert-mountain  country  through  which  we 
passed  on  the  eastward  journey  to  Tecate.  This  impressive  land-
scape,  everywhere  coruscated  with  outcropping  boulders,  is  evoca-
tive of  an  obscure,  profound  past. 
Rancho  la  Puerta  nestles  against  a  low  range  of mountains  some 
five miles  south  of  the  Mexico-California  border  near  Tecate,  Baja 
California.  It  is  the  home  of  the  School  of  Scientific  Living,  the 
Essene  School  of Life,  the  Academia  de  Folosofia:  a  conglomerate 
of activities,  including  a  health  resort,  a  school  and  a  publishing 
company,  personally  supervised  by  Professor  Edmond  Bordeaux 
Szekely. 
We swung  off the  highway  under  an  arched  sign  and  drove  into 
the  ranch  where  cream-coloured  guest  cabins  and  cottages,  the 
lecture  room  and  museum,  the  library,  dining  halls,  the  bake  house 
and other  buildings  are  dotted  informally,  yet  quite  attractively, 
among  the  sloping  vineyards.  After  joining  with  guests  at  supper 
in the  agreeable  cafeteria-style  dining  room,  we  walked  around 
the solarium,  gymnasium  and  swimming  pool  towards  the  pro-
fessor's  house,  where,  in  his  book-lined  study  and  office,  he  told 
us details  of  his  work. 
He chose  to  settle  near  Tecate  in  1938  since,  at  an  altitude  of 
2,000  feet,  there  is  here  a  year-round,  dry,  mild,  near-Mediter-
ranean  climate.  There  were,  at  the  time  of  our  visit,  over  200 
people  at  Rancho  la  Puerta,  including  117  patients  attending  for 
medical  reasons,  60  co-operative  members  and  70  Mexican  workers. 
On an  average,  two-thirds  of  the  guests  come  for  treatment,  a 
smaller  fraction  for  study.  The  kernel  of  the  treatment,  which 
includes  carefully  supervised  diet,  sun,  air  and,  water  therapy,  is 
the organic  or  bio-chemical  grape  cure.  Grape  juice  is  taken 
between  meals,  twice  in  the  morning  and  twice  in  the  afternoon. 
For  those  who  wish  to  study,  the  aim  is  to  provide  the  best  and 
most  authoritative  books  in  the  particular  field  to  which  the  student 
is attracted;  the  school  is  non-sectarian,  all  philosophies  and  move-
ments  are  discussed.  The  essence  of  Professor  Szekely's  approach 
is described  by  him  as  "  omnilateral  optimology":  the  science 
of combining  the  best  elements  in  diverse  ways  of  healthy  living 
and creative  thinking.  The  word  "  Essene  " is  used  to  express 
the  aim  of  synthesis  and  to  imply  that  the  guiding  principles  of 
the  school  are  the  values  and  ideas  of  the  ancient  Essene  Com-
munities—as  reconstructed  and  interpreted,  be  it  noted,  by  Pro-
fessor  Szekely. 
The  dietetic  schemes  are  not  vegan.  Organic  wild  honey, 
acidophilus  milk  and  cheese  are  integral  parts  of  the  menus.  Four 
neighbouring  farms,  maintained  by  the  School,  provide  these  and 
organically  grown  grapes,  wheat  and  vegetables.  Veganism  is 
perhaps  too  advanced  for  this  and  other  institutions  that  have  so 
frequently  to  deal  with  the  ailing  meat-eater. 
Short,  with  Roman  features  and  a  prominent  rotundity.  Pro-
fessor  Szekely  exudes  a  suave  and  genial  optimism  which,  one 
30

[Page 33]
senses, has  been  cultivated  upon  the  foundation  of  an  inherited 
good nature  by  an  active  disciplined  and  far-reaching  intellect. 
His great  contribution  to  naturopathy  is  that  he  has  raised  it  some-
what from  the materialistic  plane  on which  it  only too  often  drearily 
languishes, and  integrated  it  with  philosophical  and  cultural  values 
derived from  his  wide  studies  and  deep  interest  in  archaeology. For 
a practical  example,  at  each  meal  time  the  La  Puerto  News  is 
distributed.  Each  thrice  daily  issue  contains  the  essential  teachings 
of some  great  philosopher,  suggestions  for  reading  and  daily  acti-
vities, and  a  list  of  foods  served  outlining  their  specific  values  and 
effects. In  the  evenings  there  are  recorded  concerts  of  classical 
music, Esperanto  study  groups,  art  classes;  also  lectures  on  philo-
sophy, psychology,  archaeology  and  topics  of  current  interest. 
AN EARLY  EXPERIMENT 
We left  Baja  California  and  re-entered  the  United  States  in 
order to  establish  contacts  in  Arizona  and  Colorado.  Our  route, 
however, soon  took  us  south  again  down  the  valley  of  the  Rio 
Grande  to  Las  Cruces  in New  Mexico.  Here  we called upon  a kind 
and elderly  lady  of  about  80  years  of  age—Mrs.  Stoes—whose 
address we  had  been  given  in  California,  and  who  was  able  to  tell 
us of an  interesting  experiment  in  community  living  which was  com-
menced in  1885. 
Our hostess  had  been  a  personal  friend  of  the  wife  of  the 
founder,  Dr.  J.  B.  Newbrough,  who,  in  1881,  received  a  remark-
able revelation  entitled  "  Oahspe  ".  Acting  upon  certain  exhorta-
tions contained  in  this  book,  Dr.  Newbrough  and  a  group  of 
friends  chose  a  site  at  Dona  Ana,  near  Las  Cruces.  Here  they 
brought unwanted  infants  from  New  Orleans,  Kansas  City  and 
other centres  and  founded  a  children's  colony  in  order  to  raise  a 
nobler and  more  spiritual  race  of men  and  women.  The  conditions 
were, first,  that  no  animal  food  save  honey  was  ever  to  be  used  on 
any part  of  the  property,  except  milk  for  children  under  five  years 
of age;  second,  that  all  adults,  except  invalids,  should  have  but  two 
meals per  day  of  24  hours;  third,  that  there  should  be  not  less 
than five  new  adoptions  of  orphans  every  year. 
The venture  was  joined  by  a  pioneer  of  fasting,  Dr.  S.  Tanner. 
The members  of  the  colony  attributed  their  health  to  the  merits 
of diet  and  fasting;  they  also  believed  in  the  therapeutic  power  of 
the earth's  magnetism  and  used  the  healing  rays  of  the  sun. 
According  to  Mrs.  Stoes,  they  took  excellent  care  of  the  children, 
who were  both  healthy  and  happy.  Dr.  Newbrough  died  in  1891. 
and the  colony  was  finally  disbanded  in  1906,  since  the  site  proved 
too difficult  for  his  successors  to  turn  to  financial  advantage. 
On the  basis  of  the  material  given  her  by  her  friend,  Mrs. 
Stoes has  written  a  highly  interesting  and  sympathetic  account  of 
the colony, its purpose,  its  founding  and subsequent  history.  Unfor-
tunately this  has  not  yet  been  printed.  The  story  would  be  of 
particular  interest  to  vegans,  not  only  because  of  the  high  idealism, 
31

[Page 34]
courage  and  great  sacrifice  implicit  in  the  venture,  but  also  because 
there  has  not  since,  to  my  knowledge,  been  any  other  experiment 
in community  living  of which  a  vegan  (or  rather  a  very  near  vegan) 
diet  has  been  an  integral  part. 
We visited  the  site,  on  a  large  bend  in  the  Rio  Grande,  shortly 
before  sunset.  The  Fraternum  for  adults  is  now  a crumbling  adobe 
ruin whose  remaining  rooms  are  inhabited  by  Mexican  "  wet-
backs  "—cheap  labour  for  the  cotton  farm  that  occupies  the 
original  area  of  the  colony.  The  large  refectory  of  the  children's 
house  once  full  of flowers,  singing  birds  and  the  laughter  of orphan 
children  is  piled  with  bales  of  hay.  Faced  with  these  remains  and 
the realization  that  their  deeply  significant  story  is  almost  totally 
unknown  to  the  world,  there  was  but  one  question  to  ask:  was 
the attempt,  a  half century  ago,  premature  or  made  in  vain?  My 
own belief  is  that  an  ideal  fully  applied  if  only  for  a  short  period 
will create  a  latent  force  that  will  remain  as  a  hidden  nucleus  for 
a later  and  more  comprehensive  manifestation  in  more  auspicious 
circumstances.  Hence  the  occult  importance  of  any  obscure  and 
apparently  extreme  pioneering  effort,  if it  is  an  expression  of  true 
light. 
VEGANISM  IN  THE  UNITED  STATES 
On the  east  coast  once  again,  this  time  in  New  York,  I  spoke 
to Mr.  Symon  Gould  of  the  Health  Guild,  shortly  before  our 
return  to  England.  He  assisted  in  forming  the  original  figure  for 
the number  of  vegetarians  in  the  United  States.  It  is  estimated  that 
there  are  some  3,000,000.  This  figure  includes  Theosophists,  7th 
Day Adventists,  Unity  Christians  and  members  of  other  religious 
groups  that  include  vegetarianism  in  their  teachings.  Of  organised 
vegetarians,  those  who  have  formed  themselves  into  vegetarian 
societies  as  such,  there  are  perhaps  only  from  3,000  to  4,000. 
Vegans  are  very  few  and  far  between.  Although  the  exact 
number  would  be  difficult  to  obtain,  there  are  probably  under 
1,000. And  as  Dr.  Nimmo  pointed  out,  they  are  scattered  over 
a large  continent  and  unco-ordinated.  There  appears  to  be  no 
American  Vegan  Society,  active  and  organised,  although  I  under-
stand  that  at  one  point  a  move  was  made  to  found  one. 
It should  be  noted  that  American  vegetarian  papers  and  journals 
are,  to  put  it  crudely,  very  pro-vegan.  We  do  not  find  in  their 
pages  many  articles  about  protein  and  deficiencies  (probably  owing 
to the  vigorous  propaganda  of  that  active  branch  of  the  hygienic 
movement  that  excludes  all  dairy  products  for  health  reasons); 
but we  do  find,  for  example,  the  full  truth  about  dairy  farming 
openly  publicised  and  acknowledged.  Veganism  is  subsumed 
within  the  vegetarian  movement  as  a  whole;  it  is  seen  to  be  an 
• upper  offshoot  of the  one  central  tree.  Thus,  in  one  article  I  see 
it written  that  "  the  ethical  vegetarian  is  one  of  the  highest  prin-
ciples  and  morals  and  the  highest  of  these  is  the  vegan."  In 
another:  "  the  '  vegan'  vegetarians  .  .  .  comprise  the  only  group 
32

[Page 35]
that  can  be  correctly  termed  '  true'  vegetarians  as  the  other  groups 
. .  .  compromise  with  society  in  varying  degrees."  And  so  on. 
This free  acceptance  of the  idea  of veganism  in  the  vegetarian  press 
is due  no  doubt  to  the  hard  work  and  influence  of  Dr.  Nimmo 
and other  American  vegans  and  to  the  spread  of  our  journal  across 
the Atlantic. 
The American  vegetarian  movement  as  a  whole  is  naturally, 
at this  stage,  amorphous  and  polyglot:  a  variety  of  principles  and 
concepts interfuse,  commingle  and  support  each  other.  In  this 
fluidic condition  it  is  difficult  to  see  how  veganism  is  progressing 
and whether  it  will  emerge,  as  it  has  done  in  this  much  smaller 
country,  with  a  representative  body  to  elucidate  and  expound  its 
teachings and  experiences. 
One thing  is  certain,  an  excellent  opportunity  will  occur  at  the 
second National  Vegetarian  Convention  to  be held at  Lee's  Summit, 
Missouri,  this  year.  At  the  first  National  Convention  held  at  Lake 
Geneva,  Illinois,  in 1949, twenty  aims  and  objects  of the  total  move-
ment were  defined.  All  these  were  excellent  and  desirable.  But 
may I  suggest  that  in  the  coming  Convention,  "  non-dairy  " dele-
gates recommend  an  addition:  the  formation  of  a  representative 
body to  act  as  a  focal  point  for  those  who,  whether  for  spiritual, 
humanitarian  or  health  reasons,  exclude  all  animal  products  from 
their way  of  life.  In  choosing  a  name  ("  veganism  " need  not 
necessarily be  adopted)  for  this  group—which  would  surely  be  of 
great support  and  encouragement  for  those  in  the  United  States 
who have  adopted  advanced  reforms—a  word  or  words  sufficiently 
comprehensive  to  cover  all  approaches  would  be  desirable. 
The materialistic  cycle  at  present  in  full  swing  on  the  North 
American  continent,  as  elsewhere,  is  undoubtedly  ephemeral.  With 
respect to  the  far  distant  future  at  any  rate  this  is  surely  a  land 
where a  true  way  of  life,  acknowledging  in  the  highest  sense  the 
interaction  of  the  unseen  and  the  seen,  of  heaven  and  earth,  will 
manifest  in  great  beauty  and  fullness.  But  to  this  end  there  is 
much work  to  be  done.  Vegetarianism  in  all  its  phases  has  a 
long way  to  go.  Perhaps  in  a  few  hundred  years  .  .  ?  Mean-
while, in  this  very  dawn  of  dawn,  the  Vegan  Society  continues  to 
uphold an  advanced  ideal,  and  at  the  end of  its  first decade  extends 
with renewed  warmth  the  hand  of  greeting  and  of  friendship  to 
its North  American  friends. 
OBITUARY 
Miss Annette  Mills  passed away  on  Monday  morning,  January 10th,  1955, 
not having  recovered  consciousness  from  the  operation  that  took  place  the 
previous week.  She  was  an  enthusiastic  vegetarian  of  several  years'  standing 
and was  most  sympathetically  attuned  to  the  vegan  way  of  life.  Her  TV 
broadcasts were  an  inspiration  to  thousands  of  children—and  grown-ups. 
She undoubtedly  had  a  living  message  of  love  towards  all  creatures  to  pass 
on to  those  with  responsive  understanding.  M.E.D. 
33

[Page 36]
VEGAN COMMODITIES 
Christina Harvey 
All products  mentioned  below  are  vegan  unless  otherwise  stated. 
Avery's  Vermicelli  Ltd. 
Vermicelli  and  Noodles  (unless  they  bear  the  prefix  "egg"), 
Macaroni,  Spaghetti,  Semolina. 
Dulcet  Confectionery  Ltd. 
Some  of  their  sweets  which  were  vegan  now  contain  butter 
unfortunately.  However,  the  following  still  meet  vegan  require-
ments:  — 
Fine  Barley  Drops,  Extra  Fruit  Lollies,  Fine  Herbal  Pieces, 
Sky Mints,  Fine  Tropical  Fruits,  Fine  Glucose  Fruits,  Dessert 
Fruits,  Cut  Fruit  Rock. 
H.  J.  Green  Si  Co.,  Ltd. 
Carmelle,  a  new  dessert  sweet,  contains  sugar,  glucose,  agar-
agar,  sodium  phosphate,  colouring  and  flavouring. 
Kelloggs 
Corn  Flakes,  All-Bran,  Rice  Krispies,  Pep  Bran  Flakes,  Wheat 
Flakes,  Sugar  Frosted  Flakes,  Wheat  Krumbles  (only  available  in 
America).  We  are  even  assured  that  the  glue  used  in  packing  is 
obtained  from  purely  vegetable  matter! 
London  Health  Centre 
All fruitarian  cakes  except  Gingernut  Bar  and  "  Fruit  and  Nut 
Snack  "  (pink  label)  contain  honey. 
W.  and  H.  Marriage  8C  Sons. 
Wholemeal  and  White  Flours,  Wheat  Embryo.  Vegans  will be 
glad to  know  that  Wheat  Embryo  is  entirely  unprocessed. 
Munich  Ltd. 
Munch  biscuits  contain  animal  fat.  We  understand  that  they 
could  be  made  equally  well  with  vegetable  margarine  and  negotia-
tions  are  being  made. 
W.  Pre-wett  Ltd. 
Wholemeal  Sweet  Biscuits  (Barbados  Sugar,  Glucose,  Fat,  Com-
post Wholemeal  100%  Flour,  Syrup). 
Wholemeal  Unsweetened  Biscuits  (Compost  Wholemeal  100% 
Flour,  Fat,  Malt  extract). 
Ginger  Nuts  (Syrup,  Ground  Ginger,  Compost  Wholemeal 
100% Flour,  Barbados  Sugar).  Wholemeal  Cookies  contain  honey. 
Quaker  Oats  Ltd. 
Sugar Puffs  contain  honey. 
34

[Page 37]
Shearns 
Bread. The tins are greased with vegetable fat. 
Soups, Nutmeats and Puddings served in the restaurant remain 
vegan. A new delicacy is the Nutveete Meatless Sausage. The 
ingredients are rusks, soya granules, vegetable fats, wheat protein, 
Brewers' Yeast, Cashew or Arachio nuts, and savoury herbs. The 
sausages even have an edible skin made from  seaweed. They are 
packed in 17-oz. tins containing eight  sausages in suenut, ready 
for frying or grilling. A tin costs 2/9. 
Burleson Ltd. 
Some of their toilet preparations now contain bees* wax. 
The following products remain vegan: — 
Almond Blossom Foundation, Mayfair Liquid Foundation, 
Hand Lotion, Magnolia Skin Tonic, Skin Freshener. Antiviray 
(sunscreening) Lotion, Petal Dew Foundation, Rejuvenating Plastic 
Mask. 
McCIinton Ltd. 
Colleen and Barilla Soaps are
 now made entirely of vegetable 
matter. 
Edgar J. Saxon Ltd. 
Integrity Biscuits may now be added to their list of other vegan 
products. 
Any questions regarding commodities will be gladly received 
and answered by: Christina Harvey, , Hornsey 
Rise, London, N.19. 
A VEGAN SOCIETY IMPRINT 
The Society wishes in the near future to have a block made of 
an imprint or symbol suitable for use on vegan pamphlets and 
Society literature and possibly also on the cover of The Vegan. 
A design, in black and white, that can, if necessary, stand con-
siderable reduction, is required. Our members are invited to sub-
mit ideas, sketches or finished drawings. An original and appro-
priate symbol for the ideals of veganism is not easy to conceive 
in simple and uncomplicated pictorial form. You perhaps have 
the right idea. Therefore send it along to the Editor. 
It has been so far suggested that the most appropriate symbol 
would be an equilateral triangle; symbolizing the threefold ap-
proach to veganism of the humanitarian, the hygienist or the 
spiritual seeker (love, power, wisdom; or emotions, will and mind). 
And within this triangle an animal, a man and a tree, elaborating 
the symbolism and also suggesting a proper
 relationship between 
the three kingdoms of living nature. Comments on this conception 
would be welcome. 
35

[Page 38]
SIMPLE AND  USEFUL  RECIPES 
Mabel Simmons 
HAZELNUT  PASTE 
2 tablespoonfuls  milled  nuts.  brown  gravy. 
1 tablespoonful  fresh  brown  bread-  1  oz.  margarine. 
crumbs. Celery  salt. 
1 small  onion. 
Mix nuts,  crumbs,  celery  salt  together.  Cut  onion  finely,  fry 
golden  brown,  sprinkle  over  a  little  sage.  Place  onion  on  top  of 
mixture,  mix  into  soft  dough,  with  gravy,  form  into  small  balls. 
Place  parsley  on  top  of  each. 
Baked  cashew  nuts  or  Brazils  make  a  good  flavoured  paste. 
TOMATO  AND  WALNUT  PASTE 
1 tablespoonful  milled  walnuts.  1  dessertspoonful  chopped  parsley. 
H tablespoonful  fresh  brown  bread-  1  large tomato. 
crumbs. Seasoning. 
1 oz.  margarine. 
Mix nuts,  crumbs,  parsley,  seasoning  together.  Peel  tomato, 
fry  until  soft,  pour  over  mixture,  mix  into  soft  dough.  Form  into 
small  rolls,  garnish  with  parsley. 
LENTIL  PASTE 
1 lb.  lentils.  1  small  onion. 
Seasoning.  1  oz.  margarine. 
Sage. 
Cook  lentils,  press  through  sieve,  add  onion  cut  finely and  fried, 
seasoning,  sage  sprinkled  over  onion.  Mix  all  well  together,  form 
into  balls.  Garnish  with  small  piece  of  tomato. 
YEASTREL  OR  MARMITE  PASTE 
2 oz.  cashew  nut  butter.  1  oz.  Yeastrel  or  Marmite. 
2 oz.  margarine. 
Cream  nut  butter  and  margarine,  mix  in  Yeastrel.  Put  mixture 
into  jar.  This  paste  keeps  for  several  weeks. 
SOYA  FLOUR  BISCUITS 
6 oz.  wholemeal  flour.  Celery  salt. 
3 oz.  margarine.  Water. 
2 oz.  soya  flour. 
Mix flours  together,  rub  in  margarine,  mix  into  stiff  dough. 
Roll  out,  cut  into  circles,  prick  with  fork,  bake  in  hot  oven  seven 
or ten  minutes. 
36

[Page 39]
WHOLEMEAL  GINGER  SNAPS 
i lb.  wholemeal  flour.  2  tablespoons  treacle. 
1 teaspoon  baking  powder.  1  teaspoon  ground  ginger. 
1 oz.  soft  brown  sugar.  Water. 
1 oz.  nutter. 
Mix flour,  baking  powder,  sugar,  ginger  together,  rub  in  nutter, 
stir in  treacle,  mix  to  a  firm  dough,  roll  out,  cut  into  rounds,  prick 
with fork.  Bake  in  slow  oven  30  minutes. 
TENTH  ANNUAL  GENERAL  MEETING 
Held at  50,  Gloucester  Place,  London,  on  Saturday,  November  20th, 
at 2.30  p.m., with  Mrs.  E.  B.  Shrigley  in  the  chair.  There  was  the  ordinary 
business of  the  meeting  and  valuable  suggestions  and  observations  were 
made by the  members. The  A.G.M.  finished  with a discussion  on  the  health 
of vegans,  especially  the  results  of  the  recent  investigation.  Dr.  Frank 
Wokes and  Dr.  Pickard  were  present  to  answer  questions. 
After refreshments  there  were  pianoforte  solos  and  songs  from  Miss 
Alva Wood  and  Mr.  Stanley  Brown,  and  recitations  by  Miss  Christina 
Harvey. This  was  all  greatly  enjoyed  and  brought  a  successful  meeting  to 
a delightful  close. 
ANNUAL  REPORT  OF  THE  VEGAN  SOCIETY 
(Year ending  September  30th,  1954) 
The Executive  Committee  is  pleased  to  report  that  there  has  been  steady 
work and progress through the  year. Members  have  shown  great enthusiasm 
and interest  in  their  Society:  this  is  shown  by  the  correspondence  received 
by the  President,  Secretary  and  Editor. 
Executive Committee  Meetings 
There have  been  six  Committee  Meetings,  each  taking  about  five  hours 
on a  Saturday.  Good,  intensive  and  valuable  work  is  done,  especially  as 
it is  a  Specialist  Committee  with  Members  responsible  for  advertising,  Baby 
and Child  Bureau,  Health  Council,  Recipes  and  Food;  apart  from  the 
Chairman, the  Secretary, Treasurer and  Editor. 
Hie  Executive  Committee  wish  to  thank  Mr.  and  Mrs.  D.  Arnaldi  for 
the loan  of  their  flat  for  the  meetings. 
Mr. D.  Cross  and  Mr.  G.  McGinley  had  to  resign  from  the  Committee" 
and we  thank them  for  all  that  they  have  done  for  the  Society. 
The 9th  Annual  General  Meeting 
This was held on  November  7th,  1953, at the Friends  Meeting  House;  and 
was followed  by  tea  and  interesting  slides  of  Sweden  by  Mr.  Almgren, 
Assistant Manager  of  the  Swedish  Travel  Bureau. 
Health Investigation 
Twelve members  of  the  Vegan  Society  have  been  to  Oxford  for  tests  to 
help in  the  investigation  of  the  health  of  vegans.  The  results  have  been 
tabulated and  form  valuable  statistics.  We  are  indebted  to  Dr.  Frank 
Wokes and  Dr.  Sinclair  and their  assistants  for  all  the  work  they  have  done 
in connection  with  this  research. 
Commodities 
Miss Christina Harvey  has  continued  to  do  phenomenal  work  investiga-
ting foods,  materials  and  commodities.  This  has  culminated  in  the 
publication of  the  1st  Trade List which  has  proved  so  popular.  The  Society 
tenders its  grateful  thanks  to  Miss  Harvey  for  her  very  valuable  work. 
37

[Page 40]
The Vegan 
There have  been  three  copies  of  The  Vegan  this  year,  Spring,  Autumn 
and Winter  (delayed  until  1955).  There  were  not  sufficient  funds  to  publish 
both the  Summer  Vegan  and  the  Trade  List,  which  was  considered 
important. 
Mr. Gordon  McGinley  resigned  from  the  Editorial  Board,  and  his  place 
was taken  by  Mr.  Antony  Clark. 
The Society  wish to  thank  Mr.  Heron  for  his  admirable  work  as  Editor. 
Round Table  Conferences 
There have  been  two  Round  Table  Conferences  this  year  in  March  and 
September,  organised  by  the  International  Vegetarian  Union,  The  Vege-
tarian Society  and  The  London  Vegetarian  Society.  Representatives  of 
many Humanitarian  Societies  attended,  including  The  Vegan  Society.  The 
Humanitarian  Way  of  Life  was  discussed  in  order  to  attain  a  deeper  under-
standing  of  all  points  of  view. 
International Congress  of  Animal  Welfare 
The Congress  was  held  in  May,  and  500  delegates  represented  SO 
countries.  The  Vegan  Society  was  represented  by  Mrs.  E.  B.  Shrigley,  Mrs. 
M. Drake,  Mrs.  S. Coles  and  Mr.  R.  Cross.  Mr.  L.  Cross  read  the  address 
of The  Vegan  Society  which  he  had  mainly  written.  Copies  of  the  address, 
The Vegan  and  other  literature,  were  distributed  and  aroused  great  interest. 
Dance 
The Vegan  Society  held  a  joint  dance  with  The  Vegetarian  Social  Club 
on April  24th,  1954,  at  which  The  Vesan  Society  was  responsible  for  the 
refreshments.  It  was  a  great  success. 
Abroad 
The Vegan  Society  and  the  vegan  philosophy  have  been  publicised  in 
Indian, Japanese  and  American  papers. 
Branches 
There are  four  Branches  of  the  The  Vegan  Society  in  England:  Bristol, 
the Midlands,  Yorkshire  and  London.  These  have  done  steady  good  work 
with meetings  and  social  events. 
Animals' Fair 
The London  Group  organised  the  Vegan  Stall  at  the  Animals'  Fair  in 
November,  1953.  The  profit  was  not  so  large  as  previous  years  but  a great 
deal of  propaganda  was  given  out  in  talks  with  interested  enquirers. 
Membership 
The membership  of  the  Society  remains  about  the  same  as  last  year. 
However,  we  look  forward  with  confidence  to  an  extension  of  the  influence 
pf veganism  and  an  increase  in  membership. 
ELSIE B.  SHRIGLEY  (President). 
HILDA  HONEYSETT  (Secretary). 
N.B.—The  Treasurer's  Report  and  Statement  of  Accounts  will  be 
included  in  the  next issue  of  The  Vegan. 
THE  VEGAN  TRADE  LIST 
This remarkable  and  comprehensive  list  of  vegan  products  of  all  kinds— 
foods,  confectionery,  drinks,  remedies,  toilet  preparations  and  cosmetics, 
household  products  and  sundry  other  items—that  has  been  compiled  after 
extensive  research  by  Miss  Christina  Harvey,  is  a  thorough  guide  to 
safe  shopping,  not  only  for  vegans  but  for  vegetarians,  food  reformers  and 
nature-cure  enthusiasts.  See  that  you  introduce  a  copy  to  your  friends  as 
soon  as  possible;  and  ask  your  Health  Food  Store  to  provide  a  valuable 
service  for  their  customers  by  ordering  several  copies  to  have  for  sale  and 
on display.  Write  now  for  several  copies  for  distribution:  they  are  obtain-
able at  1/3  each,  post  free,  from  the  Hon.  Secretary,  The  Vegan  Society, 
38 Stane  Way,  Ewell,  Surrey. 
38

[Page 41]
BOOK REVIEWS 
Vegetarian Cookery,  by  Dr.  Pietro  Rotondi,  D.  C.  Willing  Publishing  Co., 
Los Angeles,  1942,  $3.00. 
Now in  its  second  edition  (1948),  this  book  contains  over  450  recipes 
listed under  such  headings  as:  bread  and  rolls,  beverages,  cakes,  cake 
fillings, cocktails,  confections,  cookies,  entrdes,  frostings,  gravies,  ice  cream 
and sherbets,  muffins  and gems,  pies,  puddings  and  desserts,  relishes,  salads, 
fruit and  vegetable  combinations,  raw  vegetable  combinations,  cooked  vege-
table combinations,  salad  dressings,  sauces  for  entries,  sauces  for  desserts, 
soups, vegetables.  Not  one  of  these  recipes  contains  dairy  products  or 
eggs. Of  "animal"  foods,  only  honey  occurs  in  a  few  of  the  cakes  and 
confections.  Substitution  here, of  course,  is  easy. Herbs—savories,  aromatics 
and spices—are  freely  used.  The  only  foods  that  are  not  readily  available 
in England  are  avocado,  squash,  corn  and  egg  plant. Charts  on  vitamins, 
laxative foods,  herbs,  flavours,  weights  and  measures,  substitutions  and  acid 
and alkaline  foods  are  helpful  and  informative.  For  its  comprehensiveness, 
imagination, original  and  wholesome  combinations,  but  above  all,  for  its 
refreshing freedom  from  the  use  of  milk  and  eggs,  I  do  not  hesitate  strongly 
to recommend  this  cookery  book  to  all  vegans  and  vegetarians  in  this 
country. 
Your Vegetarian  Baby,  by  the  same  author  and  from  the  same  company 
at $2.00,  was  first  published  this  year.  Here  is  a  booklet  of  75  pages  fear-
lessly advocating  a  true  vegetarian  diet—no  flesh,  fish,  fowl,  dairy  products 
or eggs—for  mother  and  new-born  child.  Dr.  Rotondi  wisely  perceives  the 
deep relationship  between  true  vegetarianism  and  man's  spiritual  destiny; 
and he  has  here  written  what  is,  in  essence,  a  religious  plea  and  the  outline 
of a  practical  programme  for  a  thorough  regeneration  of  all  that  attends 
the conception,  gestation  and  raising  of  children.  Parenthood,  pregnancy, 
infancy, childhood  and  adolescence  are  dealt  with  in  one  or  more  of  their 
various aspects:  spiritual,  psychological,  nutritional,  practical  and  so  on. 
I am  not  competent  to  judge  upon  the  various  recommendations  given,  but 
the nutritional  regime  for  children,  which  is  vegan  except  for  the  inclusion 
of honey,  is,  I  know,  supported  by  the  author's  experience  as  a naturopathic 
adviser. Hence  this  booklet,  though  perhaps  containing  insufficient  detail 
and elaboration,  will  be  of  particular  interest  to  vegan  mothers  or  mothers-
to-be in this country. I  do not  think the climatic  and sociological  differences 
between this  country  and  California  seriously  qualify  the  basic  theme  of 
"true vegetarianism." 
Complete Vegetarian  Recipe  Book,  by  Ivan  Baker, G.  Bell  &  Sons, Ltd., 
London, 1954,  9/6  net. 
"Vegetarian diet  excludes  all  fish,  flesh  and  fowl.  Every  other  kind 
of food  is  used  in  the  preparation  of  vegetarian  dishes."  It  is  a  great  pity 
that the  connotation  of  the  word  "vegetarian"  has  assumed  such  a  rigid 
crystallization  as  is  suggested  by  these  words  that  open  the  preface  to  Mr. 
Baker's recipe book.  Nevertheless,  such  leniency  undoubtedly  attracts  those 
who eat  meat  and  simplifies  their  change-over  problems:  it  is  not  for  us 
to judge or condemn. Vegans,  however,  should  be  informed  that  this is  very 
definitely a  lacto-ovo-vegetarian  recipe  book.  They  would  have  to  engage 
in much  substitution,  dodging  and  patching  in  order  to  avail  themselves  of 
the great majority of  the  recipes.  And  however  much  we  may  acknowledge 
the purpose  and  value  of  this  comprehensive  range  of  dishes  in  a  world 
where semi-vegetarianism  is  itself  a  comparatively  obscure  movement,  it  is 
our particular  responsibility  to  insist,  tactfully,  that  such  a  liberal  inclusion 
of eggs  and  dairy  products  glosses  over  all  that  is  involved  in  their  large-
scale production.  A  delicate  situation:  we  respect  Mr.  Baker's achievement, 
yet we  give  our  evaluation  particularly  for  the  sake  of  those  who  feel 
inspired to  share  our  point  of  view. 
39

[Page 42]
Self Health,  by  Peter  Esslemont,  J.  E.  Esslemont  Ltd.,  Aberdeen,  1950, 
2/-. 
This is  a  pocket  compendium  of  64  pages  on  what  its  84 years old  author 
considers  to  be  the  requirements  of  health.  Among  other  aspects  of 
physical  well-being,  the  teachings  and  systems  of  Horace  Fletcher,  J.  F. 
Muller,  Dr.  Jackson,  Emile  Cou6  are  reviewed  and  interwoven  with  a  highly 
individualistic  range  of  quotations  from  Burns,  Gladstone,  Belloc,  Dean 
Swift,  Wesley  and others!  The  whole  is  knit  together  by  the  nutty,  homely 
style  of  the  author  and  by  the  many  pertinent  observations  of  his  vigorous 
consciousness.  Quite  frankly  I  enjoy  this  health  book  not  only  because 
practically  all  the  recommendations  it  contains  are  sound,  but  also  because 
it is  decidedly  colourful.  Much  that  is  written  on  health  tends  to  be  rather 
bare and  sparse—the  rigour  of  a  new  land  before  the  culture  and  civiliza-
tion that  is  to  appear  thereon  has  been  evolved.  Mr.  Esslemont  is  not 
wholly  on  the  new  land:  he  does  not  specifically  advocate  vegetarianism, 
but he  has,  nevertheless,  an  innate  understanding  of  the  philosophy  and 
practice of  the  healthy  life,  and  in  this  respect  he  writes  for  the  future  with 
the refreshing  zest  of  one  who  is  steeped  in  that  capacity  for  proverb,  wit 
and pungent  comment  so  typical  of  the  past.  His  book  also  includes  a 
Children's  Corner  and  an  interesting  review  of  the  work  of  the  great  nine-
teenth  century  reformer,  Sir  Edwin  Chadwick.  Of  great  importance  is  his 
keen realization  of  the  power  of  the  mind  (positive,  optimistic  thinking), 
the state  of  the  emotions  (a  calm,  cheerful  and  friendly  outlook)  and 
the application  of  the  will  (energetic,  constructive  and  altruistic  activity)  in 
maintaining  health. 
It is  a  pity,  however,  that  apart  from  general  exhortations  to  eat 
moderately  of  simple  food  and  to  eat  some  hard,  some  bulky  and 
some  raw  food,  he  does  not  go  in  sufficient  detail  into  the 
dietetic  basis  of  health;  nor  does  he  warn  against  the  insidious  effects 
on health  of  the  devitalized,  demineralized  and  chemically  doctored 
foods  by  which  we  are  all  nowadays  surrounded.  But  taking  these  further 
and very  important  factors  into  account,  it  is  certainly  true  as Mr. Esslemont 
stresses,  that  health  can  only  be  continuously  applied  by  ourselves. 
Food for  the  Golden  Age,  by  Frank  Wilson,  The  C.  W.  Daniel  Co., 
Ltd., 1954,  21/-  net. 
There is  a  vigorous  electrifying  tension  underlying  the  style  of  this  book 
that speaks  of  knowledge,  experience'  and vision.  The  author,  one  senses, 
has truly  seen—through  many  years  among  the  native  races  on  the  island  of 
Mauritius  and  through  much  reflection  upon  and  study  of  the  habits  of 
civilized  nations—that,  as  Professor  Ehret  once  wrote,  "life  is  a  tragedy  of 
nutrition."  Here  is  a  thorough  review  of  the  great  harm  wrought  in  our 
lives, by  the  consumption  of  animal  flesh,  of  refined  and chemically  poisoned 
foods;  by  the  exploitation  and  subsequent  deterioration  of  our  soils;  and by 
other allied  evils  of  our  day.  Mr.  Wilson  reasons  from  the  facts  of  com-
parative  anatomy  to  establish  the  natural  diet  of  man;  he  then  suggests 
an explanation  for  early  man's  deviation  from  this diet,  and after  a long  and 
detailed  analysis  of  all  that  this  and  later  deviations  of  food  preparation 
and production  imply,  advocates  the  adoption  of  a  balanced  vegetarian 
dietary  of  natural  whole  foods. 
This is  not  in  the  ordinary  style  of  such  works.  An  inner  emotional 
pith secures  our  sympathy  for  the  virile  writing.  And  interwoven  with  the 
main theme  of  dietary deviation,  there  is a mass  of highly  educative  informa-
tion  of  great  interest  that  is  frequently  built  round  original  and  stimulating 
opinions.  The  reader  must  discover  for  himself  what  the  perceptive  and 
penetrating  mind  of  the  author  has  to  offer,  and  agree  or  disagree 
accordingly.  Perhaps  the  most  encouraging  of  Mr.  Wilson's  views  is  his 
belief that  beauty,  love  and  goodness  (as  well  as  true  diet)  are  man's natural 
inheritance  from  a  past  and  distant  Heaven-on-Earth;  also  his  faith-that 
it is  towards  a  reconstitution  of  this  Golden  Age  that  the  planet  is  now 
40

[Page 43]
painfully and slowly moving. He writes with poetic force of the ennobling 
virtues of those higher sentiments that move within us. 
Unfortunately, though the author acknowledges that man's natural diet 
is purely vegetarian (vegan, to us), he considers that it is unwise to "risk 
a purely vegetarian diet under present conditions," and recommends the use 
of dairy products as an "insurance against the heavy risks of protein 
shortage." Mr. Wilson is certainly not up to date when he writes that the 
dangers of a purely vegetable diet are greater than the dangers of milk. For 
those with courage, conviction and adequate knowledge, there is no more 
danger in
 what we call a vegan diet than in any other. Mr. Wilson's 
statements do not do sufficient justice to the experience of those who have 
lived for many years upon a vegan diet with success. And if we are in 
truth moving towards a future Golden Age it is important to acknowledge 
right now that someone has to—and quite safely can—start pioneering with 
its diet. But then the motive force of a deep realization of the extent and 
implications of the symbolic and actual evil of man's exploitation of the 
animal kingdom, does not play its part in Mr. Wilson's advocacy of a 
reformed dietary: his eye is more upon the effects of unnatural eating. 
With the vegan, however, this motive force is present and enables him to 
go forward in faith to prove the benefits of his diet. 
The student of a more arcane tradition is not likely to accept Mr. 
Wilson's theory that the original home of man was in the region of the 
Himalayas. The whereabouts of the legendary "Garden of Eden" is not 
perhaps of importance for the main theme of the book. It is, however, 
misleading to suggest that man, in his natural goodness and pristine purity, 
was forced to become unpleasant because of the privations that followed 
his expulsion from his early home by the third Ice Age. It is doubtful 
whether the origin of evil in man can be accounted for by purely climatic 
and ecological factors. Nevertheless, the excellence and vigour of this 
book, in so far as its treatment of the interaction of diet and human life 
is concerned, may safely recommend it to the student of reformed living. 
The New World Civilisation, by Vera Stanley Alder, The C. W. Daniel 
Co. Ltd., 1954, 1/6. 
In this pamphlet, the latest of her writings, Miss Alder sketches out 
certain aspects of the path that will lead to the establishment of a New 
Age. She stresses man's responsibility to his own spiritual potentialities 
and to the world which has been given him to inhabit. Will a new world 
civilisation really emerge from the corruptions of the present day? Well, 
those with vision and faith—among whom must be included Miss Alder— 
believe it will. Their faith is in man, in his capacity to respond to the great 
humanitarian and spiritual inspirations that are gradually dawning upon the 
consciousness of the race. But it is important that we should be aware that 
these inspirations are, in fact, reaching us. Miss Alder's pamphlet assists 
.their spread and suggests what we may look forward to if we take upon 
ourselves the responsibility for self-knowledge, self-development and "right 
living" with respect to ourselves and to others both animal and human. 
J.H. 
THE CHILD AND BABY BUREAU 
Vegans are often challenged regarding their supply of calcium, as the 
orthodox teaching generally insists on milk for its supply. For growing 
children especially, calcium is essential and oatmeal provides one of the 
best means by which it can be given. Raw oatmeal, used in muesli, is, of 
course, ideal but, if not liked in this form, it can still be given cooked and in 
scones or biscuits. According to Professor Szekely: "Calcium is the 
dominant nerve controller; it powerfully affects the cell formation of all 
living things and regulates the nerve action. It governs contractility of the 
muscles and the rhythmic beat of the heart. It also corrects the other mineral 
elements and corrects disturbances made by them. It works in sunlight. 
Vitamin D is its essential counterpart." Kindly send all enquiries to: Mrs. 
S. N. Coles, , Purley, Surrey. 
41

[Page 44]
CORRESPONDENCE 
It is  wonderful  to  have  attained  the  stage  where  one  conscientiously 
knows  that  one  is  really  and  truly  following  the  vegan  way  of  life.  Cer-
tainly this  is  a  very  high  achievement.  One  says  "I  am  a  vegetarian," 
another,  "Yes,  I  am  a  vegan,"  meaning  that  they  are  members  of  these 
Societies.  To  understand  what  the  vegan  way  is,  and  to  follow  it,  is  quite 
another  matter. 
Life may  become  more  difficult,  and  even  trouble  and  distress  may  be 
caused to  relatives,  who  consider  that  departing  from  all  lactic  and  animal 
food  is  fraught  with  danger.  In  spite  of  this,  it  is  well  worth  while,  and 
he who  overcometh  will  undoubtedly  inherit  the  Crown  of  Life.  The 
Secretary of  the  Bristol  Vegetarian  Society,  himself  a  vegan,  said  at  the 
last May  meetings  held  there:  "If  a  person  has  attained  to  the  vegan  way  of 
life,  he  has  achieved  very  much.  There  are very few  indeed  who  really  have 
attained  this.  It  may  be  asked  "What,  then,  is  this  way?" 
I think  that  most  vegans  will  agree  that  the  basis  of  it'  is a  diet  of  whole 
vegetarian  foods  which  are  uncontaminated,  and  mostly  raw,  with  set  meals 
and no  deviations.  This,  of  course,  excludes  chemicals,  soda,  salt,  baking 
powder,  and  afternoon  tea  at  a  friend's  house  or  in  a  cafe  with  sundry 
nibblings  at  made-up  foods  and  confectionery.  If  in  carrying  this  out  one 
loses acquaintances  and  is  not  again  invited,  what  of  it?  There  is  a  great 
fund  of  worthwhile  friendship  which  is  above  habit  or  custom.  The  real 
folk  understand  and  respect. 
• •  A  great  deal  of  fuss  has  been  made  about  the  result  of  a  purely'  vegan 
diet. There  is  sufficient  sustenance  in  vegetable  food,  including  fruit,  if 
rightly produced  in  one's  native  land,  to  sustain  and  keep  its  people  in 
good  and  robust  health.  So  few  have  really  tried.  Blame  for  its  failure 
has been  made  by  those  who  know  of  deviations.  Most  of  us,  too,  have  a 
lot to  make  up  on. 
I have  recently  visited  part  of  Northern  Ireland,  cycling  from  one  Youth 
Hostel  to  another.  There,  hostellers  provide  and  prepare  their  own  food. 
I met  a  good  many  people  and  watched  their  way  of  life.  Three  items 
were very  prominent:  the  frying  pan, the  tea pot and cigarettes.  What  might 
be a  healthy  holiday  is  ruined.  Most  of  these  people  are  young,  and  walk 
or cycle  long  distances  during  their  outings.  As  a  vegan  I  found  the 
company  a  little  trying  owing  to  these  habits. 
Few took  any  interest  in  the  elderly  and  lone  hosteller  who  carried  a 
grater in  his  kit.  There  were,  however,  opportunities  to  get  in  a  few 
words, and  they  were  not  missed.  If  any  young  vegans  are  members  of  the 
Youth  Hostels  Association,  a  chance  is  there  and  it  will  be  to  the  uncon-
verted. 
We can  all  do  very  much  to  promote  the  vegan  way  of  life  by  our 
example  and  by  perhaps  adding  a  little  to  our  annual  subscription  and 
trying to  get  new  members  and  writing  to  other  vegans.  Helping  at  the 
Animals'  Fair  Stall  and  attending  the  annual  and  other  meetings  for  those 
who are  able  to  do this,  is  a great  help.  It  is  the  spirit  of  pioneering  which 
gains in  the  long  run. 
During  the  ten  days  spent  in  Northern  Ireland  and  putting  up  at  Youth 
Hostels  my  diet  consisted  chiefly  of  Allinson's  bread,  Vitawheat  and  Ryvita 
biscuits,  raisins,  dates,  apples,  carrots,  onions,  lettuce,  watercress,  Kosher 
margarine  and  soya  butter,  blackberries  and  elderberries,  some  demerara 
sugar and  a  tin  of  raw  sugar  marmalade  brought  with  me,  also  some  fruit 
and nut  cakes.  I  also  had  some  parsnips  and  parsley,  bananas  and  one  or 
two pears,  and  a  little  Cadbury's  roasted  nut  chocolate  and  Heinz  baked 
beans. This  has  variety  and  proved  ample.  My  chief  culinary  article  was  a 
grater. Much  of  the  above  was  obtained  en-route. 
Well, perhaps  other  vegans  and  younger,  will  try  a  cycling  holiday 
of this  nature,  carrying  with  them  the  gospel  of  truth  and  good  health. 
42

[Page 45]
Mine was  taken  in  early  October,  which  is  quite  a  good  time.  Many 
Hostels  are  open  all  the  year.  There  are  no  frills,  but  several  friends  who 
know what  to  expect  can  enjoy  a  first-rate holiday. 
Criccieth, Edgar  B.  Hewlett. 
N. Wales. 
As two  successful  vegans  of  over  seven  years'  standing,  my  husband  and 
I would  like  to  endorse  all  that  Alfred  Le  Huray  says  in  his  article  on 
"Veganism and  Nutrition"  in  the  autumn  number  of  The  Vegan. 
We obtain  our  protein  from  the  various  sources  mentioned  and  we  also 
take all  the  supplementary  items  of  diet  recommended  by  the  writer.  We 
consider there  is  one  important  omission  in  the  article.  How  do  vegans 
obtain their  Vitamin  D  in  this  sunless  island?  We  take  "Radiostol,"  as 
used and  recommended  by  Dr.  Pink.  In  his  booklet  Mother,  Child  and 
Diet it  says:  "Vitamin  D  is  easily  obtained  from  Radiostol  which  is  pre-
pared by  the  irradiation  of  ergosterol  with  U.V.  rays.  This  preparation 
supplies the  Vitamin  D  just as effectively  as the fish oils  in  common  use,  and 
has the  advantage  of  being  free  from  animal  matter." 
Budleigh Salterton,  (Mrs.)  M.  J.  Harries. 
Devon. 
I have  just  received  your  Spring,  1954,  number,  for  which  I  thank  you. 
Truly I  enjoy  very  much  this  small  but  "dear  to  me"  Journal. I  feel  as  if 
the "Essenes"  of  old  times  in  my  country  would  have  published  and  sent 
me this  small  publication.  The  Vegan  Society  has  much  in  common  with 
the "Essenes" who  lived  not  far  from  here in  Ein  Gedi  and other  settlements 
around the  Dead  Sea.  Not  only  that  you  are  propagating  and  living  the 
same "meatless"  life  and  not  exploiting  animals  as  the  Essenes  were  doing. 
If you  would  come  to  Ein  Gedi  you  would  see  at  once  that  no  agriculture 
could have  been  practised  there  which  demands  animal  labour.  Our 
ancestors lived  on  vegetables,  fruits  and mostly  dates  which  I  presume grow 
well in  that  time  in  that  climate. 
You also  are  a  "minority"  and  I  do  not  know  why,  I  am  always  on  the 
side of  them.  I  cannot  say  that  I  .am  a  "pure"  vegan,  but  this  is  my 
ideal and I am striving to be  one. Only  the  immense  difficulties  arising from 
environmental and  private  difficulties  are  the  obstacles  that  I  am  not  yet  a 
vegan, de  facto,  because,  de  jure,  I  am  already  since  a  considerable  time. 
I .tried last  year  to  change  entirely  to  vegan  diet,  but  as  we  are  a  country 
in which you  have  sometimes  fruits  (oranges) in  superabundance and another 
time only  the  rich  can  afford  to  buy  fruits,  probably  my  unbalanced  diet 
was the  cause that I had not  sufficient acidity in  my  stomach  and  the  doctors 
told me  to  eat  again  eggs  and  more  cooked  food.'  I  must  tell  you  the  truth 
that immediately  that  I  ate  again  eggs  my  health  became  better,  as  if  the 
acid-deficiency never existed.  I  must also  tell  you  that eggs are a food  which 
takes less  time  to  make, so  I  am sure that if I  would  have  had  the  possibility 
to obtain  another  vegan  food  instead  of  eggs,  I  would  also  have  been 
healthy. But  a  kind  of  protein  was  necessary  .  What  is  more  at  that  time 
I did not  know  that  pea-nuts  are not a  protein food  and ate  pea-nuts in great 
quantities thinking  that  they  give  me  the  substitute  for  the  protein  of  meat! 
Only now  I  know  that  they  do  not  contain  protein.  Their  name,  pea-Nuts 
caused the  mistake, as  other  nuts  are  not  yet  grown  here  in  peat  quantities 
and must  be  imported and  are very  dear. So  I  had no  proteins  and  became 
sick. 
Some months  ago,  my  friend,  Yehezkel  Dorn,  a  vegan,  told  me  that  an 
egg is an embryo. I  knew this  but it brought up  again my  horror  for  animal 
food,  and  also,  shortly  before  I  saw  how  a  hen  of  a  neighbour  died  of 
haemorrhage as the egg was too  big  and I saw the bloody  poor  hen. So  since 
then I do not  eat again eggs  and as I eat now  sufficient  quantities of  potatoes 
and also  other  cooked  vegetables  I  feel  very  well.  It  is  only  a  pity  that 
walnuts are  not  a staple  product  here,  but  pecan  nuts  have  been  planted  this 
43

[Page 46]
year and  so  in  eight  years'  time  we  will  have  sufficient  nuts,  too,  and  so 
proteins.  I  write  you  this  as  we  should  learn  from  the  experience  of  one 
another. 
The world  to  come will  certainly  be  a vegan  world.  I  am not yet a vegan 
because  I  do  not  refuse  a  milk  coffee  when  at  friends  or  when  on  travel 
and nothing  else  obtainable.  In  this  "hostile"  environment,  I  don't  want  to 
say "hostile"  because  this  is  not  the  proper  expression,  I  think  it  is  better 
to say  in  this  environment  where  truth  is  yet  dormant  it  is  very,  very  hard 
to be  a  vegetarian  and  even  more  a  vegan.  But  the  light  came  already  out 
from  the  darkness  and  it  is  already  now  in  the  penumbra,  and  soon— 
relatively  soon  in  the  history  of  mankind—it  will  be  clear  light.  It  will 
be a  time  when  mankind  and  the  sub-humans  and  all  creation  will  live  in 
harmony,  happiness  and  peace  under  the  sun  of  the  new  age. 
I find  your  slogan  "cruelty  breeds  cruelty,"  page  29  top,  excellent.  I 
think all  animal  friends,  vegans  and  vegetarians  all  over  the  world  should 
use this  short  and  simple  and  penetrating  slogan.  Doctors  told  ,  me in 
Europe  and  also  here when  this  question  was  brought  up,  that many children 
who are  allowed  to whip  a horse  or  a dog  generally  find pleasure  in doing  this 
cruelty,  and  grow  up  psychopaths,  masochists  or  sadists.  No  child  should 
be allowed  to  be  the  "master"  of  a  horse  or  dog  if  he  has  the  slightest 
inclination  to  abuse  it. 
We have  now  a  snake-plague  here  and  as  we  have  not  yet  an  efficient 
serum some  people  died  of  the  bites.  I  think  the  excessive  poulty-raising 
brought  the  snakes  to  the  settlements.  The  snakes  eat  the  mice,  the  mice 
the grain  around  th?  poultry-sheds.  ^Vhst  would  you  propose  zgainst  snakes 
mostly  vipers?  Maybe  you  have  a  member  who  was  in  India  or  Brazil  and 
he knows  it?  It  may also  be that the  mice  of  the  fields have  been  extermina-
ted by  poisoned  grain  and  now  the  snakes  are  hungry  and  come  to  the 
villages.  Wherever  the  balance  of  nature  is  disturbed  trouble  comes. 
England  has  mostly  beneficial  influence  on  us,  but  sometimes,  unfortu-
nately,  abhorrent  methods  are imitated.  Recently  the  poultry  raisers learned 
that it  is  good  to  "fatten"  a  hen  by  injection  of  hormones  in  its  head.  If 
this is  generally  adopted,  I  pity  both  our  countries.  The  shadow  of 
sterility  will  endanger  future  generations.  We  must  elucidate  and  elucidate! 
Hormones  in  the  heads  of  chickens! 
Mr. Hanworth  Walker's  visit  here  brought  the  most  magnificent  results 
for the  vegetarian  and  vegan  movement  in  Israel.  Already  a  National 
Union  was  formed  and  soon  we  will  start  a  great  propaganda  action.  Will 
you  please  tell  your  members  that  whenever  a  vegan  comes  as  a  tourist  to 
the Holy  Land  he  or  she  should  inform  me,  as  his  visit  could  be  used  for 
vegan  propaganda,  as  a  man  from  afar,  as  a  perfume  from  Paris, has  better 
fragrancy,  more  influence,  than  a  local  "prophet."  Have  you  heard  about 
my idea  of  the  Universal  New  Year  Day  of  all  Creation?  Sri  Swami 
Sivananda,  an  Indian Sage,  wrote  that  in  India  there  are six  New  Year  Days. 
This inspired  me  that  it  would  be  wonderful,  uniting  mankind  all  oyer  the 
world if  in  addition to  the  usual  New  Year  Day  of  each  religion  a  Universal 
New  Year  Day  would  be  celebrated  the  same  day  all  over  the  world.  The 
astronomers  should  fix  it  by  mutual  agreement. 
Rishon  le  Zion,  Pinchas  Nasich. 
Israel. 
Having  read  Health for  All,  Health  and  Life  and  the  Vegetarian  News, 
I have  now  reached  the  stage  of  reading  The  Vegan.  It  seems  to  me  that 
vegans  are,  as  a  Mr. Pink  has  remarked,  at  the  spearhead  of  the  Vegetarian 
Movement.  But  I think  that  so  much  perverse  propaganda  is  put out  by  the 
Press that  it  will  take  years  to  progress  along  vegetarian  and  nature  cure 
lines,  and  veganism  can  be  regarded  as  only  an  ultimate  ideal  to  look 
forward  to  for  our  children  or  grand-children.  It  may  be  possible  for  a 
person  of  independent  means  living  in  the  country  to  practise  veganism,  but 
in town  with  the  world  around  us  and  conventions  on  all  sides  it  is  no  easy 
task. 
44

[Page 47]
One can  only  advance  towards  such  ideals  as  veganism  slowly  and  surely 
without rushing.  Nor  can  one  expect  others  who  prefer  conventional  food 
to change  their  mode  of  life  suddenly.  I  wish  I  had  known  about  nature 
cure and  veganism  a  few  years  back  when  several  members  of  my  family 
were ill  with  troubles  that  would  have  responded  to  nature  cure  and  vegan 
treatment. 
But, of  course,  so  far  as  veganism  is  concerned  there  is  the  added 
attraction that  it  is  making  exploitation  of  animals  a  moral  issue.  Cruelty 
to animals  does  arise  from  man's  exploitation  of  them.  The  mutilation  of 
horses and  cattle  is  particularly  offensive.  I  come  of  a  family  of  farmers 
and I  am engaged in  the leather  trade. As  I say, we cannot  expect  to  change 
the whole  nature  of  society  in  a  day  or  even  a  year.  But  we  can  keep  a 
clear vision  of  the  ultimate  ideal  in  mind  and  work  towards  it. 
London, E.12.  S.  A.  C.  Webb. 
I have  had  copies  of  the  Vegan  from  time  to  time  and  would  like  to 
congratulate you  on  your  splendid  little  magazine.  It  is  very  interesting 
as well  as  educational.  For  those  who  have  been  vegetarian  for  a long  time 
like myself,  we  are  ready  to  take  the  higher  step  which  is  no  animal's 
products at  all.  However,  for  the  beginner  we  can  only  expect  a  gradual 
change. To  cut out even  the flesh of animals  is a big step to take all at once. 
I must  confess  that  there  are  very  few  of  our  members  here  in  Calgary, 
or even  throughout  Canada,  for  that  matter,  who  are  vegans.  It  is  a  pity, 
for after  all,  that  is  the  only  true  vegetarian.  I  know  your  representative  in 
the United  States—Dr.  Kathrine  Nimmo.  She  is  a  very  fine  person— 
absolutely  sincere  in  all  her  convictions. 
Our group  is  still  quite  small.  We  find  it  an  uphill  task  to  interest  the 
public in  our  way  of  living.  We  live  in  a  ranching  country  where  the 
raising of  animals  for  slaughter  is  the  largest  industry  of  Western  Canada. 
Where money  is  the  main  object,  it  is  almost  impossible  to  overcome  such 
material sentiments.  However,  we  have  made  our  voices  heard  in  our 
community. A  few  years  ago  we  held  public  dinners,  when  we  have  had 
over 100  guests  present.  For  a  small  city  this  is  not  a  bad  record.  We 
have been  a  bit  dormant lately  so  are  at present  trying  to feel  our way  back 
into the  old  routine.  The  members  are  off  to  a  new  start,  full  of  interest 
and enthusiasm  for  the  future. 
With all  good  wishes  to  the  vegan  members  and  hoping  that  the  future 
will bring  renewed  vigour  with  new  recruits  to  this  our  Great  Cause. 
Calgary Unit,  (Miss)  June  F.  Kimball, 
Canadian Vegetarian  Union  (Corr.  Secretary). 
I am  a  Life  Member  and  one  of  the  group  of  pioneer  members  when 
the Society  was  formed.  Though  I  have  faltered  on  the  way, my  ideals,  and 
ninety-five per  cent  of  my  way  of  life  are  vegan,  and  the  arrival  of  The 
Vegan is  always  a  joy  and  inspires  me  anew.  We  are  most  of  us  solitary 
units and need this inspiration, and I am thankful  the Society  and The  Vegan 
survive. I  trust  it  will  go  on  and  on.  I  enclose  30/-  as  a  donation  and 
wish I could  make  it more. 
I would  like  to  comment  on  the  letter  from  W.  M.  in  Mrs.  Drake's 
report. It  is  so  true  that  vegans  make  up  with  too  much  pastry,  etc.,  con-
taining rising  agents.  The  difficulty  is  in  providing  for  a  hungry,  active 
family. Individuals  can  manage.  Vegetables,  raw  or  cooked,  and  fruits, 
need "topping  up"  with  something  satisfying  that  will  carry  one  on  for 
four or  five  hours. 
Far too  many  packet  cereals  are  used,  which  also  call  for  milk;  and 
nut cream  is  expensive.  These  cereals  are  mostly  starch  and  pre-cooked. 
My own  very  satisfactory  solution  is:  baked  potatoes  with  nut  butter  or 
gravy made  from  vegetable  stock;  and  boiled  wheat,  barley  or  oatmeal.  The 
latter make  a  most  satisfying  dish,  after  a  salad  or  fruit  meal,  served  with 
nut milk  and  a  little  sweetening  of  some  kind,  sugar  or  syrup. 
As we  know,  whole  foods  are  the  answer  for  health,  and  here  we  have 
45

[Page 48]
them.  Care  is  needed  in  preparation,  but  if  1  lb.  is  cooked  at  once  for  a 
family  of  three  or  four  this  lasts  two  or  three  days,  and  longer  if  one 
possesses  a  refrigerator. 
An electric  liquidiser  is  a  worthwhile  investment,  to  enable  one  to  make 
nut cream  or  milk at  home.  This  is  preferable  to  the  bought,  as  no  oil  need 
be added,  which  I  understand  is  incorporated  in  the  bought  to  help 
emulsifi  cation. 
Forgive  this  lengthy  letter  please,  but  if  I  know  of  a  good  thing  I  like 
to pass  it  on  to  help  others  to  solve  their  problems.  The  correspondence 
printed I  have  found  very  helpful.  I  also  hope  we  shall  have  some  more 
T. De  la  Torre.  The  article  contained  much  that  was  helpful  and 
practical. 
BOILED WHOLE  CEREALS 
3—4 ozs.  of  whole  wheat,  barley  or  pin-head  oatmeal—a  little  experience 
will prove  if  the  family  like  a loose  or  stiff result.  Oatmeal,  of  course,  only 
requires  about  i  hour  cooking,  but  the  wheat  and  barley  need  at  least 
3 hours.  To  soak  overnight  in  1  pint of  the  water  helps  on  the  cooking. 
1 pound  wheat  or  barley,  S  pints of  water.  Put  the  cereal  in  the  boiling 
water and  boil  fast  for  10  minutes,  stirring  all  the  time.  Then  remove  to  a 
very low  heat—small  electric  plate,  turned  low,  with  asbestos  mat,  for 
instance.  Stir  occasionally  and  cook  till  the  grains  of  wheat  are  burst  and 
the barley  fairly  stiff—3  or 4  hours.  A  large  pan,  as  at  first,  it  boils  over 
easily. 
IT a warm  dish  is  required  "face  a  little  water  in  an  oven  dish  with  lid, 
put in  the  required amount  of  cold  cereal  and  warm  up  in  the  oven.  Serve 
with nut  milk  and  sweetening  as  required. 
Unleavened  bread  is  much  more  satisfying  than  the  yeasted  variety. 
For nut  milk in  liquidiser:  mill  the  nuts  first, 2  or 3  ozs. to  1  pint water. 
Less water  if  wanted  richer. 
Meldreth,  Herts.  Evelyn  Howard. 
Last year  I  received  two  copies  of  Vegan  from  my  intimate  friend,  Dr. 
Komaki,  and  I  felt  a  hearty  agreement  for  your  useful  movement  to  world 
peace.  Accordingly,  I  have  introduced  your  vegan  movement  through  our 
monthly  magazine  of  Human  Reorganization  to  Japanese  people  in  May 
issue. 
In this  issue  the explanation  of  vegan  movement  and  introduction  of  B.B. 
Diet  was  inserted.  On  page  46,  a  picture  of  Vegan  (Vol.  8;  No.  7)  was 
printed. 
I hope  more  widely  and  strongly  developing  of  your  movement  to  every 
corner  of  world.  Will  you  please  give  me  your  closely  connection  to  our 
movement  of  Human  Reorganization,  if  you  agree  to  our  proposal  of human 
reformation  by  food  and  sex.  I  hope  also  the  exchange  of  our  magazine 
with yours. 
Hoping  your  great  success  of  precious  work. 
Soto  Institute,  Dr.  Masakazu  Tada. 
Shizuoka,  Pref.  Japan. 
46

[Page 49]
MISCELLANEOUS ADVERTISEMENTS 
(Two lines 5/-: extra lines 2/- each; 20% allowed on four consecutive issues ) 
R. CLAUSEN-STERNWALD, Viennese Health Consultant, available again. 
Specialist in curative nutrition, drugless therapies and natural rejuvena-
tion. Serious cases only. Write: , Tring, Herts. 
HELP to save animals now from suffering and exploitation. Write: Sec 
retary, St. Francis Fields of Rest, Northiam, Sussex. 
HIGHER LIFE SOCIETY. Our Society is dedicated to the Natural Sciences 
and also the Occult Subjects. For information, kindly address: Joseph 
Reiss Activities, 3932 Blaine Street, N.E. Washington 19, D.C. 
NATURAL Grown Dried  Bilberries. Valuable nutritional source of 
potassium, iron, etc. A truly organically grown food. Delightful flavour. 
Grows only wild. Packet sufficient for 20-24 servings, 6s. lid.  post free, 
or Trial Package 2s. 3d. post free. Quotations larger quantities. Easy to 
prepare. For enjoyment and for your good health. Central Health 
Stores, 4, Clarence Street, Brighton. 
"ORGANIC HUSBANDRY—A Symposium  by John S. 
Blackburn. 2/9 post free from the Secretary, , Ewell, Surrey. 
SPEAKING & WRITING lessons (correspondence, visit) 5/-, classes 1/6.— 
Dorothy Matthews, B.A., , London, N.W.3. 
PRImrose 5686. 
VEGAN TRADE LIST, 1/3 post free from the Hon. Secretary,  
 Ewell, Surrey. 
ESTABLISHMENTS CATERING FOR VEGANS 
(First two lines free ; extra lines 2/- each ; 20% discount on four 
consecutive issues.) 
BIRMINGHAM— , Thackeray House. 206, Hagley 
Road, Edgbasto Bir
BROOK LINN.—Callander, Perthshire. Excellent position overlooking 
valley, near Trossachs and Western Highlands. Easy access, station 
J mile. Good centre for walking and touring. Vegetarian and Vegan 
meals carefully prepared and attractively served. Comfortable amenities. 
Special family terms for Annexe rooms with all conveniences. Write 
for brochure. Muriel Sewell. Tel.: Callander 103. 
COOMBE LODGE, Wotton-under-Edge, Gloucestershire, a household where 
visiting Veganj say they feel they " belong." Bircher-Benner diet if 
desired. All fruit and vegetables home-grown and compost-grown. Ideal 
for week-end conferences. Beautiful views of valley from terrace. 
Excellent centre for lovely walks in Cotswold Hills. Children always 
welcomed. Write to Kathleen Mayo. 
CORNWALL.—Vegans welcomed, lovely roseland garden to private beach 
Brochure from: Trewithian Cove House, Portscatho (75), nr. Truro. 
DUBLIN New Health Group welcomes visitors. 49 Adelaide Road, Dublin. 
Tel. 67047. 
EASTBOURNE.—Board Residence. Bed and Breakfast. Mrs. Clifford, 
, Eastbourne. Tel. 7024. 
EASTBOURNE." Edgehill Nursing Home, 6 Mill Road. Acute, chronic, 
convalescent rest cure, spiritual healing. , S.R.N., R.F.N., 
S.C.M. Tel. 627. 
KENT, Westgate-on-Sea. An inexpensive holiday is provided by our popular 
one-roomed holiday flatlets, equipped for self-catering, 30/- to 50/- per 
week each guest, or with choice of lunch and dinner. Strictly Vegan. 
Inclusive August terms 4$ gns. Bathing from the house, sandy beach. 
No smoking. Stamp for leaflet. Mr. and Mrs. Arnaldi, "  
 Tel.: 31942. 
(Continued on page 3 cover) 
47

[Page 50]
give your  child 
a better  chance 
Some  children  are  listless  and 
appear  to  lack  interest  in  what  goes 
on around  them.  In  many  cases  this 
is due  to  vitamin  deficiency  in  their 
ordinary  diet. 
Start  giving  them  two  table-
spoonsfull  of  FROMENT  in  milk 
every  day  and  you  will  soon  notice 
in your  child  an  alertness,  a  joy  of 
living  and  robustness  which  was 
lacking  before.  Healthy  children 
shoulcf  be  like  kittens,  always  alert 
and  full  of  life. 
FROMENT  will  provide  the  essential  vitamins 
Bi and  E  to  make  all  the  difference.  No  syn-
thetic  vitamins  or  any  chemicals  whatever  are 
used  in  its  manufacture.  Compare  weight  and 
price. 
FROMENT 
The  Renowned  Pure  Wheat  Cerm  Food 
Obtainable  at  all  Health  Food  Stores  and  Chemists 
16 oz.  carton  3/-.  7  oz.  size  1  /7-Jr. 
Send for  folder  to  sole  manufacturers— 
JOHN  H.  HERON  Ltd.,  Hook  Road  Mills,  Goole,  Yorkshire 
Send your  food  reform  friends  a copy of 
THE  VEGAN  TRADE  LIST 
in which  are  listed  many  hundreds  of  Vegan  foods  and 
other products,  and the  firms who make them. Wonderful 
value at  1/3  post  free  from  the  Hon.  Secretary,  38  Stane 
Way,  Ewell,  Surrey. 
48

[Page 51]
flaircul 
your meals with VESOP CONCEN-
TRATED LIQUID EXTRACT OF PURE 
VEGETABLE ORIGIN. It intensifies the 
taste of cooked food. A most appetising 
addition to soups, stews, vegetables, 
gravies, etc. Season your salads with a 
few drops of VESOP. 
Vegetarians and Vegans everywhere, ask 
your Health Food Store for VESOP. 
1/8 per  bottle, net weight 8 ox. 
(Recipe took on request; 
VESOP PRODUCTS LTD. 
498 Hornsey Road, London, N.19 
Telephone: ARChwey 24J7 
(Continued from page 47) 
HINDHEAD.—Mrs. Nicholson, ; garden adjoins golf 
course. Children welcome. Tel.: Hindhcad 389. 
KESWICK.—Highfield Vegetarian Guest House, The Heads, offers beautiful 
views; varied food and friendly atmosphere.—Anne Horner. Tel.: 508. 
LAKE DISTRICT. Rothay Bank, Graemere. Attractive guest house for 
invigorating, refreshing holidays.—Write Isabel James. Tel. 134. 
LEAMINGTON SPA.—" Qui«isana." First class guest house with  every 
modern comfort, vegetarian or vegan diet. Mrs. H. Newman,  
 Tel. 2148. 
LONDON.—Small vegetarian guest house, 20 mins. London. Terms 
moderate. Mrs. M. Noble,  , S.W.19. Tel. 
WIMbledon 7163. 
NORTH  WALES.—Vegan and vegetarian guest house, nr. mountains and 
sea. Lovely woodland garden. Brochure from Jeannie and George Lake, 
, Penmaen Park, Llanfairfechan. Tel.: 161. 
PENARTH—"Vegetarian Guest House," Rectory Rd. Rest, change,relaxation. 
Ideal situation. Pleasant holiday resort. Overlooking sea. Attractive, 
generous catering. Sun Lounge. H. d C. Send for new Brochure. 
SCARBOROUGH.—Select guest house overlooking both bays. Highly 
recommended by vegetarians and vegans. Mulgrave House, 168 Castle 
Road. Tel. 3791. 
SCARBOROUGH.—Uplands Private Hotel.  Prince of 
Wales Terrace. Tel. 2631. 
ST. CATHERINE'S SCHOOL, Almondsbury, Nr. Bristol.—Progressive 
co-educational boarding school for children of all ages, specialising in 
music, dancing, crafts, etc., in addition to usual academic subjects. 
400 ft. up, overlooking Channel and Welsh Hills. Own produce. 
Please support our advertisers and mention THE VEGAN to them.

[Page 52]
Jn igi6 
Mr. Pierce  A.  Arnold  proudly  brought 
home from  the laboratory  the  first garlic 
preparation  which  did  not  convey  the 
odour  of  garlic  to  the  partaker, 
PIERCE A. ARNOLD,  F.C.S. 
Pollard Road, Morden, Surrey 
mm 
Tablets 
Liquid 
Ointment 
Suppositories 
Emollient 
Rheumatic Balm 
Veterinary Liquid 
for internal  and  ex-
ternal comp!aint» 
are the  heir«  to 
this achievement. 
Stocked by 
Health Food Stores. 
Ordered by 
Chemists. 
Send a  postcard  for 
literature. 
THE 
NATURE  CURE 
HUME I  HEALTH 
HYDRU 
Treatments include: 
Fasting, Dietetics, Colonic 
Irrigation, Spinal Manipu-
lation, Massage, Bergonie 
Therapy, Radiant  Light 
and Heat,  Haths, etc. 
Dieting is on non-flesh food 
reform lines  sympathetic 
towards Vegan  principles 
A fully  qualified  physician  it 
in residence 
Inveresk  House,  Inveresk, 
Midlothian 
(6 miles from Edinburgh) 
H. H. GREAVES LTD 
Printers & Publishers 
106-10 LORDSHIP  LANE 
LONDON, S.E.22 
T«l*phon» : Far.it Hill 22M-2 
Please support  our  advertisers and  mention  THE  VEGAN  to  them. 
H H.  Cr.Eivas  LTD  ,  106-110  Lordship Lan«, S.E.22.