Vol. VII.  No. I	SPRING, 1951


Price 9d.














Contents

THE NEW CONSTITUTION	. Leslie J. Cross ANNUAL REPORTS  AND ACCOUNTS OF
THE SOCIETY
HOW I BECAME A VEGAN	.	.  A.R.
POT-POURRI .	. Fay K. Henderson A VEGAN AT THE I.V.U. . . Marion Reid GOOD HEALTH FOR VEGANS . Amy Little THE CHILD'S POINT OF VIEW Kath. V. Mayo
SPRING SALADS FROM THE
HEDGEROWS  .	.  Edgar 8. Hewlett
VEGAN RECIPES .	. BABY BUREAU HEALTH ADVICE  HORTI-VEGAN NOTES

Published	by  The	Vegan  Societv

THE VEGAN SOCIETY
Founded Nm,.e111ber, 1944

ADVOCATES that man's food should be derived from fruits, nuts, vegetables and grains, and ENCOURAGES the use of alternatives to all products of animal origin.


Minimum subscription, 7s. "The Vegan" quarterly

6d. rer annum, which · includ , Life Membership, Ł7 7s. 0d.




LITERATURE .,AVAILABLE
"An Address on Veganism :
       By Donald Watson " Vegan Viewpoint ,,..
By Fay K. Henderson
"Veg.:tarian Recipes without Dairy Produce" By Margaret B. Rawls (New Edition)
"Aids to a Vegan Diet for Children"
      By Kathleen V. Mayo "Man and Nature"
By Leslie J. Cross
" ls Milk a Curse? "
      By James A. Goodfellow. M.B., C.M. "Man's Natural Food"
      By Dr. Sydney M. Whitaker "The Vegan·•
Complete Sets for 19-17, 1948, 19-!9 or
1950
From  Hilda Honeysctt,  Hoaorary  Secretary,
Ewell, Surrey.




6d. post free, 6d.
6d.  ,,
l/•
2d.

3d.

7d.

2/6  ..





Honorary Treasurer:
Eve Rowland, "Handsworth," Ruckamore Road, Torquay

LOCAL VEGAN GROUPS AND SECRETARIES
LONDON.-Mrs. Muriel Drake, Sparthfield, Bromley, Kent.
YORKSHIRE.-Miss Stella Rex, Garforth, Nr. Leeds.
MIDLANDS.-Mr.	Don	Burton, Stratford-on-Avon, War.
IlRISTOL.-Mrs. E. Hughes,	Knowle, Bristol 4. MANCHESTER.-Miss Ann E. Owens,
Northenden.
SCOTTISH SECTION.-Vacant.

(Please communicate with your nearest Group Secretary).

THE	VEG.AN
Quarterly Journal of The Vegan Society




ELSIE B. SHRIGLEY,

Distribution Ma.na.ger:


PURLEY, SURREY.



Vol. VII.	SPRING, 1951	No. 1

EDITORIAL
  T is much regretted that the winter, 1950, number of The Vegan could not be produced.	With a membership of over 600 (485 ordinary, 60 life and 70 overseas), the secretarial and other work of the Society is ever-increasing and, in the absence of a full, or even a part-time paid official, the work has been distributed amongst several voluntary workers.	With this economy and the raised subscription rates, it is hoped that the journal may continue to be issued quarterly. To tho.Se scattered members who perforce "walk on their lone own" it may be a comforting friend ; to those of strong conviction it gives an opportunity to share their vigour by writing original contributions.  The genius of veganism lies in its progressive nature : we know that we can subsist and rear our babies happily and healthily on a purely non,animal diet and this practical way of life we would share with all seekers. That is not enough ; at the same time we would strive to use all possible alter, natives to animal commodities, so bringing nearer the day when animal exploitatioh may be ended-" A man's aim should exceed, his grasp or what's a heaven for?" It is not always easy to change our bad old ways for better, but let us seek for alternatives to animal produce, experimenting with new commodities and sharing success,
ful results with each other, whether it be, for instance, in food preparation, baby rearing, the acquiring of good health in mind and body or the growing of sound crops from healthy soil.
   Readers will note with regret that Allan Henderson, who edited The Vegan since 1947, .has retired from office. Much is owed to him for the standard to which we now aspire, and our good wishes go out to him.

7

2	THE  VEGAN
THE NEW CONSTITUTION
'
N'CLQS D with ea.ch copY. of this issue of The Vekan:sent t.o
    members is a copy of the new rules, with a form to be filled in and posted to the new Secretary, Mrs. Hilda Hqneysett, 38 Stane Way, Ewell, Surrey. -
   This article is intended to explain the more important points about the new rules which The Vegan Society adopted at a Special General Meeting in London on November 11th, 1950.  We have to remember that when the Society was founded in 1944 there were no rules, and that this position remained until March 1947, when rules were adopted which have served until now. For some time, however, it has been apparent that as veganism developed, the first set of rules became less capable of providing the Society with a wise and lc:1gical constitution.  The great difference' be en the old and the new rules is that this inability has been made good. .
   Our rules are not mere regulations, nor are they simply an out• line of our working arr ngements. Of course, they are regulations, and they do describe the kind of machinery we have agreed upon, but they do much more-they enshrine and safeguard our ideals. They st te precisely, and with the corporate authority of the Society behind-them, the ultimate goal to which we aspire. Lack of such a statement was the most serious deficiency of the earlier rules ; though it has to be remembered that when they were adopted the Society.had no_t evolved to the point at which we could agree upon our ultimate aim.
   By stating our agreed goal, and by defining the word " veganism " officially, we have found a permanent common ground, and brought to an end the dangerous and ever-present possibility of disintegration.
   The object of the Vegan Movement (" to end the exploitation• of animals by man ") is clarified as to the meaning of exploitation' by. Rule 4 (a), which pledges the Society to "seek to end the use of animals by man for food, commodities, work, hunting, vivisection; and. all 9ther uses involving exploitation of animal life by man."· By the adoption of this rule, the Society has clearly come out on the side of the liberators ; it is not so much welfare that we seek, as freedom. Our aim is not to make the present re1ationEhip between man and animal (which if honestly viewed is mostly one of mastet and slave) more tolerable, but to abolish it and replace it by some, thing more worthy of man's high estate.  In short, our aim is to set the creatu.,:es free-to return them to. the balance and sanity of nature, which is their rightful place, and so to end the historic wrong perpetrated when man first decided he had the right to exploit' and_enslave them.	·	·
   The, second broad aspect of the veg_an aini is its effect upon human evolution. Apart from the abolition of an enormous burden; of cruelty which is bound constantly to return like a boo_merang,

l	7

THE VEGAN

upon humanity's own head, it has to be remembered that in any relationship of master and slave, the greatest and deepest harm is suffered not by the slave, but by the master.	Until the present relationship betw.,;en man and his fellow creatures is replaced by one of companionship on a relatively equal footing, the purmit of happiness by man is foredoomed to a painful and tragic frustration. These are the broadest effects of the new constitution, but there are other aspects which should perhaps be touched upon. It is now possible to join the Society either as a full member or as an associate, and the Committee asks each existing member to state in which category he or she wishes to be. It may therefore be. helpful to point out that the new rules define a member as one who under• takes to live out vegan principles as far as he or she is able accord, ing to circumstances.	In other words what is requir d is one's honest best ; and honest in this context means reasonable also.	No
one should deny themselves the benefits of full membership simply because circumstances preclude as great a degree of consistency as might otherwise be desired.  The great thing is to be vegan in spirit, and then to do one's best.  An associate is one who is with us in principle, but who wishes to give no kind of undertaking as to pr ctice. The line of demarcation is, therefore, not rigid consistency, but endeavour.
   The annual subscription has been raised to 7s. 6d. and life mem, bership to 7 guineas. The Committee has decided that the annual subscription shall in future cover the period January 1.st to December 31st, and shall become payable on January 1st each year.
   One other important operation performed by the new rules is an increase in the unity of the Movement by making it possible for the London Vegan Group to end its separate existence and he­ come a branch of the Society. Constitutionally, the London Vegan Group is older than The Vegan Society, and is an organisation in its own right. By allowing for the setting up of branches of the Society, the new rules clear the way for the London Vegan Group to integrate itself into a united movement.
   It is perhaps not too much to claim for the new constitution that it marks the true birth of. The Vegan Society. It should be read and understood by all who contemplate joining us, for there, enshrined and embedded in words which are necessarily formal, lies all that we stand for and hope, one glorious day, tb achieve.
L.].C.


A squeak's heard in the orchestra As the leader draws across
The intestines of the agile cat The tail of the noble hoss.
-G.	T. Lanigan.





4	THE VEGAN

SPECIAL GENERAL MEETING OF THE VEGAN SOCIETY
HIS meeting was held on Saturday, November 11th, 1950, at Friends' House, London, to revise the rules of the society_
(see article on The New Constitution).
Annual General Meeting of the Vegan Society
   This meeting was held on Saturday, November 11th, 1950, at Friends' House, London, and was well attended by members, often from great distance. Frank K. Mayo explained from the chair that the society was passing through a critical phase, when the cost of paid officials and the publication of The Vegan could not both be met. The report on the year's work was approved, together with the accounts. The annual subscription was raised to 7s. 6d., lif membership to Ł7. 7s. Od.	.,.
   The following office,bearers, all honorary, and committee mem- bers were elected :	·
President: Frank K. Mayo. Vice-President: Leslie J. Cross. Secretary: Hilda Honeysett. Treasurer: Eve Rowland.* Auditor: Constance Cross.* Editor of "The Vegan": Sheila Johnstone.* Advertisement Managers : Norah and Bruce Litten.* Distribution Manager: Elsie B. Shrigley.* Committee: Jeanne Arnaldi, Don Burton, Leslie Cameron,James, Grace Churchward, Donald Cross, Muriel Drake, Sheila Johnstone, Amy Little, Kathleen Mayo, Adna Ryerson, Elsie Shrigley and Mabel Simmons.
Annual Social
   This happy event was held on Saturday evening, following the business meetings, when a bring,and,buy sale was very successful ; members and friends were ente.rtained by Anne Horner, Bruce Litten and Sheila Johnstone. An excellent vegan supper was enjoyed by all. The society is much indebted to Fay K. Henderson for organising the occasion.
The Vegan Society Report for the Year Ending Oct. 31st, 1950 During the past year the society has continued its work for:­
veganism and has extended its influence. Committee meetings hav,e been held in London on November 27th, 1949 ; Bournemouth, February 18th and 19th; Rydal, May 20th and 21st; London, July 9th; and Birmingham, September 23rd and 24th, 1950.
   The high standard of The Vegan has been maintained. Mrs. Rawls' "Vegetarian Recipes Without Dairy Produce" bas sold well and bas been reprinted, while Mr. Donald Watson's leaflet "Should Vegetarians Eat Dairy Produce?" is also being reprinted. Valuable
• Appointed at 1ir-st meeting of new Committee on January 27th, 1951.

TllE VEGAN

advice has been given in The Vegan on horticulture by Mr. Alec Martin ; on health by Mrs. Amy Little ; on food and recipes by Mrs. M. B. Rawls and Mrs. S. Johnstone; and in the Baby Bureau by Mrs. K. V. Mayo, who sends the following report:-
   "Correspondence and work in the Baby Bureau has progressed much during the past year. Help hi!$ been given to many vegetarian parents wish• ing to change their children's diet to a vegan one, and much help has been given to mothers when weaning the.ir babies on to a vegan diet. Many copies of the booklet 'Aids to a Vegan Diet for Children' ·have been sent to parents, and many letters of thanks have been received. Correspondence from home and abroad continues to increase and shows a growiog interest in veganism."	•
   A talk on "The Child's Point of View" by Mrs. K. V. Mayo, given in October to the Leeds Vegetarian Society, was very well received.
   Two stalls at the 1949 Animals' Fair organised by Mrs. Muriel Drake aroused considerable interest and produced over Ł20 for the fund$ of the society. The committee wishes to record its deep appreciation of the tremendous work done by Mrs. Drake, her helpers, and all contributors who made the stalls such a success.
   Mrs ..Fay K. Henderson, our organiser, has conducted meetings in Largs, Saltcoats, Bristol, Kircaldy and Aberdeen, and has also given several vegan cookery demonstrations, which have been much appreciated.
   Mr. G. Allan Henderson has continued the editorship of The Vegan voluntarily, but has resigned this position with the autumn issue. The committee wishes to extend their grateful thanks to Mr. Henderson for his valuaple services in editin,g the journal during the past few years.
   This sixth year of the society's existence as a separate organisa• tion has been very difficult financially. Expenditure during the year has exceeded income as the financial report shows. It was therefore decided by the committee, as the society cannot support any paid officials, to send out the "Appeal for Service," a copy ef which all members will have received. This has resulted in a num· her of offers.
   It is hoped that at the present time there will be a resurgence of enthusiasm for the vegan cause, and the committee earnest!Ą appeals to all members to do whatever they can by individual effort to keep the movement and the society alive and active.
BRUCE LITTEN.

BOOK NOW!
Saturday, November 10th, 1951-Annual General Meeting and
Social of the Vegan Society at Friends' House, London.	,

'6	THE  VEGAN

TI-IE VEGAN SOCIETY
Statement of Accounts for year ended October 31st, 1950
RECEIPTS


Ca b in hand and at Bank, Nov. 1st, 1949 Subscriptions and Donations	.. .	.. . Advertisements in The Vegan
Sale of Literature Animals' Fair, 1949
Collection at 1949 Conference


PAYMENTS
Printing of The Vegan
Literature for resale
.:.	Printing, Stationery and Advertising Postages, Carriage, Telephones., etc. Secretary's Salary	•
Secretary's travelling expenses
Stalls at Animals' Fair, 1949		 ... Subscriptions, Meetings, Expenses and Sundries Conference 1949, Expcnse.s	. . .	. .. Cash in hand and at Bank, Oct. 31st, 1950 ...


November 11th, 1950.

Ł	s.  d.
227 2 4
136 18  6
35  7 l
79 4  9
37 18  3
l 17 5


Ł518  8  4


1'43 17 3
43 10  8
22 13	8
34 16  6
157 10  0
12 18 10
13 13 0
11 16	8
S 10	0
72  1  9
Ł518  8  4


BRUCE LITTEN.

   In order to simplify the records, all subscriptions are now due on January 1st, and a prompt response is urgently requested.


LOTEX SOLING MATERIAL
   Messrs. VIK Supplies, Ltd. (a Lotus subsidiary). expect shortly to market "Lotex," a new soling material. It is a "rubber resin" product and is similar to materials which have been used very successfully in the United States for some time.	Made from combination of Styrene,butadiene resin and synthetic rubber and other materials, it has all the properties of leather with the exception of porosity to water. It has been very severely tested during the last two years and in use is practically indistinguishable from leather. "Lotex" can be subjected to all the usual shoe-making processes without the necessity of installing special machinery, has none of the defects usually associated with rubber and it wears at least four to six times as long as leather.
   Styrene,butadiene resin and synthetic rubber are basically obtained from petroleum products. The fillers and other constituents are obtained entirely from mineral or vegetable sources.





THE VEGAN	7

HOW I :·BECAME::A VEGAN
   OR many years I l'iad had a vague, weak desire to become a vegetarian. It seemed strange and horrid to have to kill other animals in order to ke!!p one's self alive, but I was assured it was necessary. No other food contained the requ:isite proteins. Besides, animals don't suffer in -the same way as human beings ; their nervous systems are not so highly developed, and killing for food is part of the natural order ! So I acquiesced, unconvinced. It was difficult to be different from the family. Besides, I disliked vege, tables unless they were thoroughly flavoured with meat or gravy. I c;lidn't know that real vegetarian cookery was ten times more delicious. One summer I took a room and lived alone. Then, at last, I was free to choose my own food and eventually I took out a vege­ tarian ration book, in spite of  dire warnings from my doctor.
About the same time I began to learn about Nature Cure and my health iml)roved considerably.	·	·
   One day I piclced-·up a copy of Tlie Vegan. The idea that milk production involved cruelty to animals was new to me. It was also claimed that catarrh (one of my troubles) was caused by milk. I decided to try it out. I was sorely beset with difficulties, social, psychological and gastronomical. My health, never good, (though it had temporarily improved) finally broke down under the strain and I had to spend five months in a non­ vegetarian hospital.
   When I came home, I began again on Nature Cure lines and had ·some treatment from a naturopath. He, however, was as much against veganism as my doctor had been against vegetarianism : his arguments were remarkably similar ! He·said that certain vital elements could only be found in dairy produce ; that vegans seemed to lack vitality ; and that the body cannot adapt itself in one generation (or, perhaps, two or three) to such drastic changes. I was also warned against emotionalism.  For a while I went back to a lacto-vegetarian diet.  But in April, 1950, I decided to become a vegan again, at my own risk. The principles seemed to me undeniable.
   Nobody can say now that I look ill ! I have a good colour, plenty of energy and have not had the 'flu ! My digestion is improving and I feel better than ever before in my life.
   Perhaps this is partly because health is wholeness, and includes our intellectual and spiritual life as well as the physical side. Love, whether shown towards our neighbour or to the animal kingdom, is wholesome, sane and practical.  So, while none of us can hope to be perfect, we can surely believe we are on the right road when
_we try to live in harmony with nature and at peace with God.
A.R., London.




8	THE VEGAN

DINNER MENU ,
BY MABEL SiMMONS
Watercress Soup .
11/2 bunche of wate1cre9'.
1 onion.
1/2•oz. of margarine.
1 large carrot.
1 tablespoon barley.
1 bay leaf.
2 pints of stock. Sea oning.
   Make stock of a bunch of watercress and peelings of vegetables. Braise onion in margarine, add carrot cut tineliy then add stock, bay leaf, seasoning and barley.  Simmer3/4 of an hour, when cooked add
1/2 a bunch of watercress, leaves tnopped.  Serve with croutons of
wholemeal bread.
Walnut and Tomato Savoury
1/2•lb. tomatoes. 2,oz. milled nuts. 2-oz. rice.
1 large onion.
1- oz. margarine.
2,oz. wholemeal bread crumbs. Seasoning.
   Cut onions finely, fry golden brown in margarine. Place cooked onion in pie-dish, then a laiyer of cooked rice and also a lay r of sliced tomatoes. Sprinkle over with milled nuts, cover with bread
:crombs.
Bake in hot oven for 30 minutes.
Parsnips
l1/2-lb!. of parn1.ips.
Cut into strips, braise in a saucepan with 1/2 oz. of margarine,
:add one teacup of stock, cook quickly for 10 min.
Dutch Apple Tart
1/2•lb. applee. 2•oz. sultanas. Rind 1 lemon.
2- oz. brown sugar.
Line shallow sandwich tin with pastry made with 6,oz. wholemeal flour, 3 ozs. of nutter and water.
Grate apples on coarse grater, add sugar, sultanas and grated
·rind of lemon and mix with fork.  Place mixture on top of pastry,
·cover with pastry and prick with fork.  Bake for 20 minutes.
    (Kindly addr ss all enquiries and sue1aestions on food preparation direct to Miss Mabel Simmons, •llllllililllilllilllilil¦ ¦ London, N.W.11).




THE VEGAN	9
Health Advice Service

LET THE GERMS LIVE!
By LESLIE CAMERON-JAMES, D.O., N.D.
T is a widely held concept that the causative factor in many diseases is a specific micro-organism or germ. Developed along,
side this belief is the creed of animal cruelty, vivisection and the unnatural practices of vaccination and injection. In a world largely given over to materialism where relativeliy shallow, artificial ideas become magnified and accepted by reputable though misguided authorities, the stark reality of healthy living and the pattern of human life harmonising with the larger plan of Natui;-e is overlooked and its light of truth obscured. Is it any wonder that the average person accepts the conventional view that germs cause disease when practically every day newspapers and radio state that this is so? Yet surely, the fallaciousness of this tenacious theory can easily be refuted if it is realised that all through life we are absorb, ing from the air we breathe and with the food we eat a multitude of minute particles among which will be microbes, noxious and otherwise. If germs were so deadly, how could we be alive now?
   The primary cause of disease cannot be charged to germs alone and they can only function detrimentally where there is that state of bodily sub-health which allows them to do so. From this latent state arises physical and mental weakness, lowered vitality and the disordered chemical unbalance resulting in a toxic clogged condftion. Bacteria can have no injurious hold on the physical organism that is 100 per cent. .healthy. Lasting cures will not be found by lab, oratory research. Simpler diagnosis and treatment which involve no suffering to living animals are in existence ; the humanitarian can learn much from the great physicians and healers of the past whose deductions were based on observation and logic.
   The sick person seeking health must be prepared to live carefully and wisely heed Nature's laws. This needs courage. To the many suffering people simple truths are often the last to be followed.


    Mr. Leslie Cameron-James,	Stanmore, Middlesex, has ind!y underta en to dea! with health que11ies, which will be answered in
these columns.


FOOD HINT : Whenever egg is mentioned in ordinary recipes, use carrageen.





10	THE VEGAN

THE VEGAN BABY BUREAU
By KATHLEEN V. MAYO
   ROM time to time I have written in The Vegan the experiences of vegan mothers, and I have mentioned diets on which vegetarian children have been fed successfully without animal products. I am now writing as a guest from the home of the great nutritional expert, Dr. Bircher,Benner in Zurich, so that vegan parents will have the advantage of having first,hand knowledge and
information direct from where the "Birchermuesli" originated.
   When vegan babies are being weaned, "almond milk" is first recommended. To make this, take thirty almonds, scald them and take off the skins, put them into a Turmix (or similar lectric mixer) with one cup of cold water, one teaspoonful of Barbados sugar and one teaspoonful of fresh apple juice. If no electric mixer is avail, able, scald thirty almonds and skin them, spread on a cloth to dry, then pound them in a -mortar to a very fine mixture. Add a glass of cold water gradually whilst stirring all the time. Strain through a fine cloth. This almond milk should be given for breakfast and tea. At tea,time it can be followed by fingers of wholemeal bread and nut,butter; spread with sieved raw tomato, or mashed ripe bananas. Every week the apple juice can be increased and at fifteen months it can be taken by itself, and baby can have his first muesli of half teaspoonful of fine oatmeal, one tea5poonful of Barbados sugar, one grated raw apple_ and almond milk. Soak the oatmeal in the almond milk overnight: Gradually increase the quantity of oatmeal and apple so that 'when baby is two years old he is having oi;i.e tablespoonful of oatmeal and two grated apples. Then a few ground hazels can be added, and a little lemon juice. This can then be baby's breakfast and tea meal, and for his mid,day meal when being weaned he can have vegetable soup and a table, spoonful of mashed cooked lentils, peas or beans with a teaspoonful of very finely grated carrot and one teaspoonful of finely chopped salad. The raw vegetable can be very gradually increased by half teaspoonful each week until baby is having a little salad. (For further: details see " Aids to a Vegan Diet for Children," which follows the Bircher,Benner methods very closely.)
   The general idea is that every child should be brought up to believe that raw salads and fruit are his real food and not merely decorative additions.
   Nutritional energy is organised sunlight energy and sunlight is the driving force of the cells of the body. Sunlight is absorbed by plants, so by giving children "sunshine food"-natural foods, all uncooked-they will radiate health and have ceaseless energy and strength.  Cooked food is destroyed food, as the vitality in it rs





THE  VEGAN	11

destroyed, but fresh raw food, is matiere vivante, the living matter from which we can draw our vitality and energy.
   The vitamins on which the nutritive effect of food depends, originate in the vegetable kingdom. They are found in sufficient quantities and in natural proportions in the fresh green salad leaves, roots of vegetables, fruits and nuts ; so these provide children with perfect food. In order for children to develop perfectly, they need certain mineral salts and these can all be obtained from fruit, nuts, vegetables and cereals.
   Mothers often thtnk that in cold weather their children must have their food hot, but hot food is injurious, and th more a child's inside is injured by taking bot foods, the worse his circulation will become and there will be more tendency to catch cold. Real warmth and a good circulation are produced by the cheII).ical energy of uncooked foods.
   Sunlight food gives health and strength and has healing power. Lack of vitamins, lack of sunlight and sunlight food are the chief causes of the most serious diseases in childhood, while those brought up on sunshine foods have the increased vitality to resist all infectious diseases. In this way children can obtain adequate quantities of calcium direct from the fresh green leaves, but it is important that they do not take too much sugar, which is the "calcium robber." Dietitians say that adults can assimilate in twenty-four hours only three teaspoonsful of sugar. Any excess taken has to undergo destructive changes into acid and toxic waste, which hardens the arteries, ruins the gums and teeth and leads to ill-health. This toxic acid waste clogs and encumbers the vertebr , resulting in fibrous stiffening and impaired nerve functioning in the spine. So if a mother brings up her child on natural foods, without developing the child's taste for sugar and sweets, what a far better chance she is giving her child to develop health and strength.  If a child is brought up on natural foods, he will not look upon the milk from a cow as be.ino- at all a natural food for human beings.
  (Kindly address all Baby Bureau Correspondence: dire:ct to Mrs. Kathle:e:n Mayo,	§	Glos.)


HORTI-VEGAN	NOTES
By ALEC MARTIN
S we write, early in the year, our solitary snowdrop shows its head above the naked earth and soon the white bell will sway
gently to herald the return of spring. Had we time, and the ability to tune our ears to listen, we could hear the earth being pushed aside as the green shoots break through to the light, and the





12	THE VEGAN

snap of the scales as the buds on bush and tree swell out. Frost holds them in an icy grip-they wait. In the mid-day thaw, they push out a little more ; so spring arrives and the garden year begins.
    By the time this appears in print, the first seeds will have been planted-parsnips, hamburg parsley, and manty others. It is as well to get some seed in at the earliest possible time ; the result may be a patchy crop, owing to the vagaries of the weather, but it is worth the chance and the blank spots may be welcome for the odd seedlings later on. Sowings can continue at intervals for quite a long time ; these later sowings may not give the length of time required for maturing exhibition crops, but even small young .parsnips arc delicious grated in salad. Onion seed, too, planted at monthly intervals through the spring and summer, ensures a continual supply of " spring " onions for the salad. These small, younger vegetables take considerably longer to prepare for the table, but-­ what can be nicer?
   Experiments with meohanical aids have had to be deferred owin;J to the wet autumn and winter. & I write, it is February fill-dike, with the dikes already full; the dearth of water deep jn the soil of the past few years js being restored, and with the warmer length, ening days our seeds and seedlings should rejoice in a happy soil.
   Weeds are most likely to be a problem; they have been growing merrily.	Even when the top surface has been workable, the hoe could not be used : it would have caused too many casualties amongst our friends, the earthworms, who have been active all winter right up to the 5urface, owing to the lack of deep frost Fortunate are those with a sufliciency of compost to swamp all the weeds: the alternative has been to fork out the larger weeds and to fork over the top few inches of soil to ex.pose the weed roots. This is equivalent to the discing of the non-ploughing agriculturist and is less devastating for the worms; it gives the surface a chance to dry out, leaves the deeper soil undisturbed and, when the favour, able time comes for planting, the remaining live weeds can be raked out.  Usually, the worms are well down out of harm's way after a dry spell or aft-er a good frost in winter, but it is some time since we had such conditions.	It is picturesque to see the continual
movement, in black and white, of rooks and gulls following the plough, but the mortality rate amongst worms must be very high : for the cutting and inversion of the soil by the plough with the attendant crowd of hungry birds takes a heavy toll of friend and foe. When we •realize the -importance of the earthworm as our valuable
friend, well, weeds or no weeds, we have to adjust our activities o fit in with the whereabouts of our worms.
and ideas to Mr. Alec Martin,
Herts.)





THE VEGAN

POT-POURRI
By FAY K. HENDERSON
Sugars
   It is good to be assured by the Sugar Division of the Ministry, f Food that there is no longer any dyed sugar (Demerara) on the market. Apparently both scotch moist and Demerara sugar may be the products of either beet or cane, but the real Barbados sugar is a guaranteed cane production.  Manufacturers' crude syrup is the residue after crystallisation of beet sugars and is thinner than the tinned fancy molasses.	Efforts are being made to get it on to the, retail market in 14 lb. tins. It replaces both. honey and all other, syrups most satisfactorily.	'
.,.
Soylac
   This useful product is still available to vegans in 28 lb. tins, but an arrangement has just been made by which it can be supplied in 5 lb. or 10 lb. bags at 1/6d. per: lb. On receipt it should be emptied into a tin and kept with the lid closelv fitted. Inquiries and orders should be sent to G. A. Henderson,
Westmorland.
   Experience has shown that a ver,y satisfactory "milk'" for use with tea or coffee can be made from a mixture of nutcream and Soylac.  First mix 1 tablespoon Soylac with 1/2 pint cold water till
smooth, then mix 1 tablespoon nutcream (cashew) with 1/2 pint
boiling water; blend the two liquids together and whisk well. Strain carefully through muslin and it is ready for use. The sediment can be used in soup or salad cream.

D.A.Y. Savoury Flak.es
   This new product is obviously a form of dried brewers' yeast similar in flavour to Marmite and Yeastrel but in flake form. It may be used as a condiment with raw salads and cold vegetables 'or to flavour a vegetable drink. A 4-oz. tin coots 1/3d., and goes quite a long way.

Quick Quaker Macaroni
   In the manufacture of macaroni a binding agent such as egg or plasma is usually •required. However, we nnd that Quick Quacker macaroni is made entirely from high qualicy Semolina and water. It is the efficiency of pressing and dryin methods which causes the macaroni to keep its shape. It is quickly cooked in only 7 minutes and useful for either savoury or sweet dishes.





14	THE  VEGAN

Cookery Courses
   The Vegetarian Catering Association has arranged further comprehensive courses of Cookery instruction :  April 7th to 21st, at Woodcote, Lelant, Cornwall; tutor Janet Walker: April 21st to May 5th, at Rothay Bank, Grasmere, Westmorland ; tutor Fay.
K. Henderson.  These courses are open to all, but priority is given to those considering vegetarian catering as a career.
B.B.C. Television Cookery Lessons
   During March, Philip Harben is giving a series of-·vegetarian cookery lessons on the television programme every· Tuesday.  It is most interesting to note that the lessons on March 13th (Flan aux tomates Nic;oise) and on March 27th (Curried b ans) are to be entirely without animal produce. Many vegans will no doubt have "seen" these lessons and sent comments to the B.B.C.
Non-Leather Footwear
   We have not yet succeeded in :finding a strong winter non,1 leather shoe without rubber, but a cosy useful bootee is on the rriarket just now. It has a tartan water,proofed upper and a_ rubber
·sole, a warm lining and a zip fastener. It is sold under the name of Greengate at 31/6 per pair.	·
   The Lotus Shoe Co., are still manufacturing quite a variety of ladies' light shoes with gaberdine tops of several colours and a rubber composition sole. They are mostly suitable for indoor and summer use.
   A good jute,soled shoe is being manufactured by Douglas Fraser & Sons, Ltd., Arbroath, Scotland. While these shoes are excellent for country wear, beach or factory, they are not suit, able for town wear or wet weather. However, these "Baffeez" are a development along right lines and we hope to call at the factory and discuss certain improvements with the makers.
Food Growth in the Arctic Circle
    A pioneer effort has been made at Rock Creek, Near Dawson iri the Arctic Circle where Duncan Strachan has reclaimed 41/2 acres of garden from the virgin waste. Last year his crop amounted to two tons of carrots, two tons of cabbage, one ton of turnips and two tons of potatoes, as well as celery, lettuce and cauliflower. Besides vegetables he has experimented with wheat, barley and oats with 1'.emarkable success, and also obtained heavy crops of apples, pears, raspberries and strawberries. This experiment is the more remarkable when it is remembered that he has only four months in the year in which to do everything, for during the other eight months the weather makes it impossible to do anything in the garden.





THE VEGAN	15

"No Vultures Fly"
   An Ealing film unit, including Harold Warrender and Anthony Steel, is now in Kenya doing the exteriors for a new film entitled "No Vultures Fly." It is a story of a big,game hunter who revolts against the killing and set,s up a sanctuary for birds and beasts. Many wild animals will be featured in the picture, which will be in colour.

Festival of Britain
   It is good to learn that arrangements have been .made for veg.::, tarian and vegan meals to be served by several of the catering firms at the Festival. The Garden Buffet (Scottish Canteens Ltd.), the Whistle Buffet, Skylark Buffet and Unicorn Cafe (C. P: Caterers) will have available every day, green salads, fruit salads, fresh fruit, wholemeal bread, etc. Cheese "and dressings will not be added to salads unless requested and cadhew nut butter will probably be available. In Batter.sea Park the Aerated Bread ,Co. anticipate having a complete salad on ice.  So vegans need not starve !


BOOK	RECEIVED
   Food Reformers' Year Book, 1951. Crown 8vo., 52pp. London Vegetarian Society. ls.
   This comprehensive booklet contains a wealth of information for vegans and vegetarians concerning the whereabouts of health food stores, hotels, guest houses restaurants, colleges and schools where their requirements may be met, both at home and abroad. Vegetarian societies, magazines and books are also listed, and some details of catering facilities for the Festival of Britain are given. Revised only with considerable labour after a lapse of twelve yea.rs, thii: Year Book should find a place for reference in every home.


VEGETARIAN YOUTHRING
 . Many like-minded friend have met through the Vegetarian Youthring; eight countries were represented at the International Youth Camp during the 1.V.U. Congress in 1950. The next camp will be held on July 20tb,30th, 1951, in the beautiful Taunus, near Frankfurt-am-Main, Germany. There will be youth activities and j,nstructive lecture,s by prominent vegetarians. Suggestions for the programme are invited (the best being rewarded). Further details may be obtained from Juergen W. Netzband, Kronberg (Taunus), Hessen, Germany.

f




16	THE VEGAN
A VEGAN AT THE I.V.U. CONGRESS
By MARION REID
HE writer was able to attend only the last three days of the 1950 International Vegetarian Congress in Holland. As the
train from the The Hook drew near Arnhem, the flat, treeless, hedgeless, marine landscape, with its interesting architecture ot town and village and with its windmills, gave place to lovely, gently wooded slopes. n the bus from Arnhem to Oesterbrek, as the English visitor had no small change to pay her fare the conductor said: "English lady! No ticket!" This ep'isode is' illustrative of the Dutch goodwill everywhere towards the English. Nearly everybody speaks English and .they eagerly seize eve y opportunity to practise the English which they learnt at school.
At the Congress, the hospit-ality and friendliness  were  most
warming to the heart. It was like a. home from home; all addresses and discus ions were in English with one exception, M. Perroud, the French delegate, spoke in his beautiful, flowing French, just as he had done three years previously in the Cotswolds. In som quarters there was, perhaps, too much preoccupation with person• alities which pass, instead of concentration on principles which endure so long as the human heart aspires. Nevertheless, from the social standpoint, the Congress was a great success. Yet a vegan at the I.V.U. seemed as much an anachronism as a Yankee at the Court of King Arthur.
   On Saturday morning, July 15th, Kaj Dessau, the resigning honorary international secretary, who has done a wonderful work of unification amongst scattered vegetarians in America, expressed his deep disappointment over the lack of organised social activities and the "criminal" neglect of youth in the vegetarian movement. After his departure, at t,he farewell meeting on the evening of Monday, July 24th, as though to challenge his latter charge, th company was enthusiastically entertained by exuberant juveniles from the nearby vegetarian youth camp. Kaj Dessau's disappoinL· ment could not have been greater than that of the few vegans at the Conference, who found their principles completely ignored. This was a retrograde step in comparison with the last Congress when there had been a general heated discussion over vegan claims. In his farewell speech Professor Stephens of Canada criticised the
.Congress for neglect of the vegan question. Indeed, vegans had been given no official welcome and·no session had been allotted to them, the only legitimate opportunity they had of publicly expressing their views was to a small gathering on Sunda,y morning, July 16th. This time had been left vacant with the official explanation: "No morning session in deference to churchgoers."

THE  VEGAN	17
   Kaj Dessau caused confusion in the minds of some of his hearers on one occasion by announcing that "vegans eat cooked
food." The confusion was evident at the Sunday morning discus, sion when somebody supposed that the ethical progression could be expressed by the stages (1) Vegetarianism, (2) Veganism, (3)
           Raw Food.  This, of course, is nonsense.  The ethical progression
j	jg (1) Vegetarianism (raw or cooked food, or both), (2) Veganism (raw or cooked food, or both).  Dr. Bircher-Benner  has  proved
over and over again the advantage of raw food over cooked food for the cure of ill-health and for the maintenance oLgood health, but this idea, though most important, is not intrinsic in veganism. Both vegetarians and vegans would be wise to take always more raw than cooked food.
The Vegan Society is a pioneer movement sta'rted during the
war and it is still feeling its way. Its members aim at eliminating the exploitation of animals for human ends. The crucial difference between the diet of vegans and of vegetarians, as the writer sees it, is that vegans abstain from eating eggs and dairy produce, which latter, in the present-day commercial conditions of dairy farming, is almost as much a slaughterhouse product as flesh food. Vegans advocate an intensive personal reform which is of fundamental importance.  This urgent question should have had first place at the Congress and should have engrossed the closest attention of those present as leaders of the vegetarian movement in various countries.  Until vegetarians have faced this question they can offer no adequate solution to the world problems of to,day.
   Having lost the opportunity offered by the 1950 Congress we must make the most of the next chance in Sweden in 1953.
   Congress members meet every three years when world con, ditions allow for a fleeting moment of eternity, as it were. The next moment might be fraught with destiny for t:he world, if only, in the interval, each one would search out the meaning for him, elf of Kaj Dessau's words: "To give less than all is not enough"-
a provocative challenge which vegans might appropriate and em, broider on their banner.


A  VEGAN  IN  ZURICH
   Our congratulations go out to Mrs. K. V. Mayo, on being invited to visit the Bircher-Benner Clinic, arising out of interest shown in her" Aids to a Vegan Diet for Children."



18	THE VEGAN

THE CHILD'S POINT OF VIEW*
By KATHLEEN MAYO
J DO	not feel that I come here as a stranger to you, for I feel that we meet here all related in thought.  We stand on a common ground of understanding, as we have in common a feeling of com­ passion for all sentient creatures. Often when meeting and talking
to friends with a dissimilar outlook, one is conscious of a great gulf separating us that is extremely difficult to bridge-the gulf between un­ related minds. But here, with vegetarian food refor.mers, desiring to live on a natural diet of the fruits of the earth, without ex­ ploiting any sentient creature, I feel the kinship of being on a common territory, all trying to live up to our highest moral staw
<lards, which are the manife.station of love, compassion and pity towards the sentient creatures.
   I feel that we all have an urge in common, and that is, our desire to set the animals free." Fundamentally, we are at one, but we have our own individual approach and standard of practice. It is said that : " Wherever four vegetarians are gathered together, there, there are five opinions," but I want to go a further step, and give a sixth. opinion, .i.s I want to talk on the child's point of view.
   I have had the privilege of receiving letters from hundreds of vegetarian parents from all over the world, some writing for advice, others sending me news of their children, and it is significant that many of the letters contain stories and anecdotes which stress the moral side of a broad humanitarianism, although this word in itself would mean little or nothing to the children concerned.  It is from this little store of anecdotes that I am drawing to,day, to share with you from my experience how logical and consistent some children can be.
   The notion that one's school days are the happiest of one's life is often far from true.		For a child who thinks for himself and has his own ideas often finds it a very painful process when he is called upon to fall into a set pattern and to believe all that he is told, yet at the same time pre.serve and develop his own individuality. A vegetarian child attending a school where his school,fellows and teachers eat meat needs the constant  ympathy and understandin of his parents and, if growing up for this child is to be a happy process, the parents must be prepared to look at difficulties from the child's point of view. He must understand their principles and so believe in them that instead of feeing he is the odd one out a,t school, by his assurance in his parents'	principles he will influence	others.	I	heard	a	delightful		example	of	this recently when a little vegan boy was leaving school ; his parents

• A talk given to the Leeds Vegetarian Society in October, 1950.

-




THE VEGAN
thanked the Headmaster for all that he had taught their son, and
the school teacher replied, " Your boy has taught me something."
   There is an old motto which says " Count ten before you speak," but a better one for a mother of energetic, healthy children is to say, " Wha is the child's point of view ? •· befor she speaks. When a child is deeplv engrossed in something he is creating, or when he is concentrating in establishing a friendship with a shy bird, and he is wanted in the house and does not come instantly, it is much better: for a mother to say to her.self, before getting im­ patient, " What is the child's point of view ? "  She will then realise that the work the child is carrying out is much more important than an adult realises at first glance.
   In the proc of growing up, one of the greatest problems to understand from the child's point of view is " inconsistency " in the adults around him. "Consistency, thou art a jewel," and wh:Lt more perfect setting for this jewel is there than an harmonious home ? Definite rules a child can under:taod, but inconsistency is most muddling and difficul't to comprehend. One of the most inconsistent things a child meets is being told to be kind to animals and yet that animals can be exploited, hurt, even killed and then eaten. There was an illustration of this broadcast the other day in Somerset Maugham's play, "Before the Party," when the child was severely reprimanded because she watched a pig being killed and the child asked why it was wrong to watch when her mother ate the pig for breakfast.
   A child is often more sensitive than an adult, and often when children of meat-eaters, born with a love for animals, suddenly realise that the dinner on the plate before them is part of a little lamb that was frolicking about in the meadow a few weeks before, are distraught and have no wish to eat it ; they take a lot of per,
I	suading to stifle their humane feelings.  Especially do we find this
with children's pets-as one little girl said about her pet rabbit, "We could not possibly eat him because we have known him socially."
   Some strong-minded children will stand out against their parents, refuse to eat animal meat and will not let their ,sensitiveness be over, ruled. We all know of many such cases where one child in a family will turn vegetarian quite by his own ideas of right and wrong. Mothers call them difficult children, and such children are often very lonely, as they have grown up surrounded by the ridicule of a meat-eating family, where every meal is an agony, and they are alone in their feelings of right and wrong.  Then when thi,s child is taught to be kind to animals and yet at the same time his parents press him to eat them, he is frustrated by the inconsistency and his mind is muddled and all at sea, as his home, the backbone of his life, where he looks for ethical knowledge, seems inconsistent to him. Now, in the same way, very many children of vegetarian parents

J




20	THE VEGAN

take the second step, and are born allergic to dairy produce, and they just cannot force themselves to drink cow's milk and to eat eggs; theu: parents cannot force or persuade them either. Very many vegetarian parents have written to me thus, and some mothers say they have difficult children because they will not drink cow's milk. But are they really being "difficult," or is it that we are being inconsistent ? Should we not help these children to develop their sensitivity instead of trying to stifle it ?  Should we not try to look at it from the child s point of view ?
   For example, when a little vegan boy, aged two, went into a neighbour's kitchen and saw an egg on the table, he asked "Have you stolen that egg from a birdie's nest? "  This little boy used to love to see the tiny birds in their nests and sometimes he had been lifted up to see the birds' eggs in the nests. ' He had been told how cruel it was take a bird's egg out of the nest, away from tbe mother bird, and when he saw a hen's egg on a kitchen table he was appalled !
   Again, from the cliild's point of view, when my little daughter was three years old, early one morning she and I visited a friend and there were two bottles of milk on the doorstep.  We live at a house where the milkman never calls, and my child, of course, wanted to know what those two bottles contained. " Is that white paint ? " she enquired, and I had to say " No, it is milk from a cow." My child, having seen puppies and kittens feeding, thought a moment and then said. "Milk from a cow, well wasn't that made for the
baby calves? " and I replied "Well, yes, it was originally," and she immediately asked, "Then what on earth is it doing on Auntie's doorstep ? "
   Another instance of a vegan-boy expressing bis principles was when he went to tea with a school-friend, and the school-friend's mother said, ·• Come along, I've got just what you like for tea, fruit salad, tomato sandwich.es and fruit juice to drink. Then I thought you would like some cheese sandwiches, as I know vegetarians eat cheese." "No, thank you," said the vegan boy, "I like every, thing else, but I don't eat cheese as it's not vegetarian." " But surely," the mother said, "It must be vegetarian as vegetarians have a special ration of cheese." The boy answered, "No, it's not vege, tarian, it is made with rennet obtained from a ca.Ifs stomach." But the friends mother still continued, " But if it isn't vegetarian, how can it be the extra rationed food allowed special.ly for vegetarians by the Government ? " And the little vegan replied, " The Government isn't vegetarian, and does not under,stand " !
   Sometimes vegetarian parents suddenly turn vegan and stop using dairy pr.oducts. A mother wrote to me one day asking if she should suddenly ·stop providing any dairy product:$ for her child, ren's meals or whether it would be better to halve the quantities
.fir t and gradually exclude them from the children's meals, as she





THE  VEGAN	21

and her husband had quite udde:nly found that milk was repulsive to them. I suggested to her. that it would be better not to stop the children from having what they were used to, but rather to explain to them why their parents had stopped taking milk, and then let the humane argument appeal to the children. A fortnight later she wrote me saying th t she had done as I sugg ted, and the cMclren themselves had decided that they did not wish to have any more of the baby calf's food, and had written a note to the milkman, saying, " Please do not call again."
   To show how dairy products are to some chiidren .as repulsive as meat is to vegetarian children, I remember once wl)en out walking with a party of vegetarians in the Lake District, that it was pouring with rain, and we came acJ'Oss a cottage where tea could be obtained. Everyone wanted to get out of the rain and hav  a. warm drink, except one boy of twelve years, and I overheard a most heated argument going on.  "I won't( I won't," he was saying, and his mother was saying, "You must, look, everyone is going in! "	"I won'•t, I just can't,' said the boy.  "Now, pe sensible," said his mother, "I can't leave you outside in the rain, and I want some tea."	The boy r plied, "Mother, I just can't eat cow's butter or that .whale,oil muck on bread.'	But when I hastened forward and assured him that if he liked he could have plain bread and jam, and that I was going to have that also, he went in to tea quite happily.
   When children have this feeling of repulsion towards animal products, I do not think we should try to stifle it, but look at it from the child's point of view, helping them to develop their love for all creatures and feel as St. Francis did that animals are their brothers and sisters and not that the cow is their mother.  From an early age this children's ,love for animals can be encouraged and fostered, and parents should spare time for children to develop this love. 1t takes much longer when out for a walk, if a child wishes to stop and speak to every pony and dog that is met, but it is much better to spare this little time and let the child make friends with any animal she or he wants to. I find that vegan children have a natural way of treating all animals as their friends and they are considerate to, wards them : a great bond of friendship develops.
   We know that children need for their perfect development and health to be surrounded by love, a feeling of security and the know, ledge that they are wanted, besides having sunshine, fresh air, exer·
-cise and the eight diet, so I would not .say that any particular diet prevents all disease. But, I can say that the children I have known brought up on a non,dairy produce diet, with plenty of fresh fruits and salads, .seem to be perpetually energetic and just full of the joy of living. They have very high vitality, and though they may have associated with other children at schools where various epidemics have occurred, they have very seldom caught anything contagious.





22	THE  VEGAN

   I personally would never dream of saying to anyone, "Thou shalt not eat dairy produce."  I only know that it is wrong for me to do so, as my conscience tells me so, and I am always glad to help those with a similar outlook should they wish for any practical help. From my personal viewpoint, the taking of dairy produce does not seem to be logical vegetarianism. It seems to ·me that the only way of abolishing the slaughter,houses is to abolish dairy farming, and to me the vegan way of life is the logical cow clusion of consistent vegetarianism. I can see the same disadvantages in drinking cow's milk as I can see in drinking milk from a cat, a bitch or a mare-in fact, to me there would be th same repulsion. The milk,drinker says that he only drinks milk from vegetarian ani­ mals-cows. However, this is an interesting point. To obtain this huge river of milk that flows through our country, to,day, cows are not allowed to be vegetarians ; they are fed on bone,fl.our, blood, meal, fish,meal and cod,liver 0il, to increase their milk output, for
increased milk yield makes increased profits.  Instead of giving 11/2
gallons of milk a day for two months to her calf, the domesticated cow now gives eleven gallons a day for ten months of the year. This means that instead of a cow giving in her natural state ninety gallons of milk per year, she is made to give over three thousand gallons of milk per year, and to me this difference between a natural ninety gallons a year and three thousand gallons a year means that we are exploiting and abusing the cow, turning her into a milk, machine. We are giving anguish to the cow by snatching her baby away in order to steal her milk and causing the slaughter of the unwanted bull,calvcs.  Often, also, thi, long,continued lactation is the cause of disease in cattle.
   We all probably have een the picture of the meat-eating lady wearing a leather jacket, having a bad nightmare and dreamin that she is surrounded bv a herd of angry cows, bellowing at her : • You killed my child! You steal my milk!  And strut about in my hide! "
   Now I am not going to eay anything about the obvious cruelty of producing eggs under the battery system, I'm not going to say anything about how rennet is obtained from a calf's stomach for cheese,making, as these you all know. I only want to say that to me, logically, a cow's milk is by nature intended solely for the pur, pose of feeding her calf, not for feeding human children, and personally I cannot believe that Nature ever intended that the cow should be the wet,nurse for the human race and, of course, adults should have been weaned in childhood. To be real human people and develop our dormant sensitivities, I think we must stop being parasites on animals and try to quell this great river of milk flowing through our country-the tiny little milk rivulet that tarted develop, ing 1SO years ago and has continued to flow in each succeeding year with ever-increasing volume until it has reached its present huge dimensions.





THE  VEGAN	23

   I think that when the history of mankind is written, the record of a grown man drinking milk from a cow will be one of the most humorous episodes in evolution. In our time, we cannot understand how the Romans could have kept women to supply them with human milk to drink, and I think that in generations to come, the new race will not be able to understand how we could keep cows to supply us with their milk. However, I have mentioned a few in­ stances of how children view these matters and to me this second step, the vegan way of life, seems one tiny move up the lacldc towards the Way of Life which Pope describes with the lovely words:	·
"To Live, as if to Live and Love were one."

GOOD HEALTH FOR VEGANS*
By Ai.'.1Y LITTLE
J\ S prevention is better than cure here is some advice about the
..Lr-'\. care of the body for inner and outer cleanliness ; by practising this, the condition which leads to rheumatism will be avoided.  Conversely, if you have any rheumatic ailment it can be
removed and banished.	First, I think, comes poise, suppleness of body and correct breathing.	Take a daily cold bath or sponge down, accompanied by muscle loosening exercises, full and deep breathing and the use of a rough towel and skin massage, prefer­ ably in the open air and sunlight.  This is a tremendous step in the right direction.	Walking is the best form of daily exercise­ stepping out as if one has to get there.	All these activities can safely be practised by young and old if combined with a correct diet, and, for those who have leeway to make up, if a very gradual approach is made until the system is sufficiently in form to benefit. Then undoubtedly a change of diet to whole foods, much advisedly eaten raw, consisting of fresh vegetables, fruits, dried fruit and cereals, is called for.  Drink of any kind will be found unnecessary when this diet is established, and raw vegetables and fruits predominate.		Hundred			per cent wholemeal,	compost, grown wheat must be the basis of our loaf, without salt.  Do not worry overmuch about sweets.  A plain meal mainly of fruits or vegetables and salads is best.		Avoid medicines and chemicals of
all kinds.  By this, I mean that your diet and way of life are the
safest and best "medicines." Canned foods, salad dressings and most fruit drinks contain preservatives. It may seem that all the joys of life have departed by following this regime. On the contrary, you "".ill find that you begin to live. Food must be masticated thoroughly,

Report of a talk given to the N. Devon Vegetarian and Vegan Society, Barnstaple, in December, 1950.



24	THE VEGAN

and the intake should be regulated by the amount of energy used. One can develop an acid condition which is the basis of diseases such as rheumatism even when on a well mixed "food reform" diet, by eating in excess of the body's requirements. Therefore always observe the golden rule of eating only when hungry and drinking only when thirsty.
All foods of animal origin hitherto included in vegetarian diet,
are unnecessary and have a very definite bearing on disease. Animal milk for instance is suitable only for the young of the species for which it is produced. A quickly growing, large animal like the cow produces a type of milk suitable to foster bovine growth. Mankind, in supplying this milk wholesale to all, is taking
a dangerous step.  It may well pe that the effect of giving thi
strong growth-promoting substance from the cow tq our children and further, making it a considerable part of our national diet, i the cause of much unnatural cellular growth ; it may promote the conditions favourable for cancer, rheumatism in its various forms and tuberculous diseases. Cheese with its milk basis contains salt and rennet-a substance from the stomach of the calf and has no place in vegetarian diet.	Eggs are the food and protection for embryo animal life and should not be included.
   Enter fearlessly and thoughtfully into right living and never look back!
SCOTTISH VEGETARIAN SOCIETY VEGAN GROUP
   The Group has met monthly up till 1950, Mrs. Hering having kindly lent her flat for small gatherings, to one of which Fay K. Henderson was a welcome visitor. Two outings also were enjoyed. Group activities are now temporarily suspended owing to the Secretary's resignation and an urgent appeal is made to anyone living in the Glasgow area able to undertake this work to communi-

cate with James A. Blythe, Glasgow.

Langside,

MIDLAND VEGAN GROUP NEWS
   On January 6th, a successful Christmas and New Year Social was held at King's Heath, Birmingham. Present were Mrs. Mayo. Mr. and Mrs. Bryniak, Mrs. Berry, Miss Marden, Miss North, Mrs. Watts, Miss Worrall, Mr. D. Burton and Mr. and Mrs Newnham. A social evening was given by Mr. and Mrs. Newnham at Erdington, on February 11th, as a farewell to the May family who have left the Midlands.
   A ramble was held on February 18th, mainly around Stratford, on-Avon, having tea with the Secretary before returning home.
   On June 26th, at 7.15 p.m., Mr. L. CamerowJames will speak on "The Implications and Limitations of Nature Cure," at Winter's Stores, Corporation Street, Birmingham.



THE VEGAN	25
YORKSHIRE GROUP NEWS
   The Group is now four years old. Meetings, usually in the form of walks, are held about monthl,y, though last year 15 meetings were held, two of whioh were indoors with talks, one, a visit to Mr. Guest's compost garden at Barnsley, and another, a bring-and,
buy sale.
A short news letter is sent each month to the 25 supporters.


LONDON VEGAN GROUP NEWS
   On Saturday evening,,February 3rd, the first Social of 1951 was held at the Attic Club, where some two dozen members and friends were gathered. There were games and competitions, but the highHght of the evening was provided by Mr. Antony Bates and Mrs. Maria Saunders, who entertained us for half-an-hour with a Puppet Play.
   It was not hilarious entertainment, by any means, for the play conveyed the humane aspect in no uncertain manner, the theme being woven around the Village Simpleton, Squire Gore and Mary, the lamb, the title being "The Village Simpleton's Lament." We are first shown the Simpleton, full of innocent simplicity, with un, kempt hair and dressed as befits a country lad of that type. He is soliloquising on the friendliness and frolicsome antics of Mary, the lamb, and how he loves to play with her. Next, we are intro, duced to Squire Gore, who lives up to his name in toto. He is the very antithesis of the Simpleton, as he is full of self-praise, and his constant thought is how he can satisfy the lusts of the flesh. The third puppet to come before us is Mary, the lamb, frolicking about in her springtime glee. The Simpleton and Mary are playing happily together when suddenly the Squire, whose nature as well as his name spells Gore, snatches the poor little innocent creature up in his arms, to make ·sure she shall provide a "nice tasty meal" for those unthinking people whose chief concern is how to satisfy their own false appetites.
   The puppet show would have been ·interesting enough to watch for the theme alone, but when it is realised that Antony Bates, who operated the puppets, wrote the play which is built around the idea contained in one of his own poems ("The Village Simple, ton's Solt1oquy"), and that Maria Saunders who took the parts of both the Simpleton and the Squire, made all the puppets, our interest is intensified. The puppets are not worked on strings, but ope.rated very skilfully on the hand-a very tiring procedure
for the operator, but most effective from the spectator's point of view.

26	THE VEGAN
   Anyone interested in th se pupp'ets will be able shortly to see some on.view at the Victoria and Albert Museum, where a new section is to be opened, and some of the· many puppets that Maria Saunders has made so well will be exhibited.	M.E.D.
   London vegans J1ad a very enjoyable gathering on Saturday, March 10th, at the group's Annual General Meeting at The Attic Club. The afternoon opened with a brains trust, when 20-30 people were present and much useful discussion took place on many vegan questions. The sixth A.G.M. of the group followed ; apologies for absence included one from Mr. Peter Freeman, M.P. The chairman, Mrs. E. B. Shrigley, opened the meeting and said that the group in celebrating its sixth birthday had done well in keeping veganism active in the London·area, and that a new chapter in the group's life could be anticipated. Arising out of the minutes was the recent television demonstration of vegan cookery. The grnup had originally approached the B.B.C. through Miss Annette Mills, the television artist, who was very interested in our move­ ment. A reply had been received from the Director of Talks with a request for details of vegan cookery, particularly the way in which it. differed from orthodox vegetarian cookery. The commit­ tee considered the matter and replied briefly. Meantime, however. the television cookery demonstrator, Mr. Philip Harben, had him­ self contacted the secretary of The Vegan Society through the efforts of the small son of the group's treasurer, who won a competition arranged by Philip Harben. The Vegan Society's secretary had then handed the matter over to Mrs. Fay Henderson who had provided the B.B.C. with the necessary details for the broadcast demonstration on March 13th. As this demonstration had not taken place before the date of the A.G.M., no further comment was possible, except that the meeting felt that it was a considerable achievement, in bringing veganism to the notice of the B.B.C., and that we should press for further demonstrations and talks.	·  .
   The secretary then read the annual report, sketching briefly the group's work during the six years since its foundation in July, 1945. He too hqped the group would go foi.ward on surer foundations as a branch of the Vegan Society. The main business of the meet­ ing was then taken, this being a resolution from the committee that the group should lay down its, separate existence and become .a branch of the Vegan Society under the new rule 17. This resolution was carried unanimously. During discussion on the best way to deal with group members who were not members of the Vegan Society, concern was felt lest these members should feel that they had been pushed out. It was hoped, however, that they could be persuaded to join the Society, but in any case all interested: people would still be informed of activities.






THE  VEGAN	17

   Election of officers for ,the ensuing year was as follows : Chair­ man-Mrs. E. B. Shrigley; Secretary-Mr. D. Cross; Treasurer­ Mrs. C. Cross ; Committee-Mr. L. Cameron,James, Mr. L. Cross, Miss G. Curteis, Mrs. M. Drake, Miss M. Dreyfus, Miss Mabel Simmons, Miss S. Surfleet.


SPRING SALADS FROM THE HEDGEROWS
By EDGAR B. HEWLETT
OW that spring has come again there is plenty of first-rate material to be added to our salads, free to all who care to
search for it. In the hedgerows of our countryside there are many good and health-giving herbs, which few gather, and of which l'li"any are unaware.
   A pair of scissors, a bag and a glove are required, in order to collect a dish of the common stinging nettle, rich in chlorophyll. ash, team and chop on a board.  The spare liquid should be used a a basis for soup or for a drink. Nettles may also. be chopped until the result is a pulpy wet mass. Add a little Barbados sugar and serve raw with salad. Young dandelion leaves are invaluable, as also are groundsel tops. They can be served raw or steamed as a vegetable, the young succulent parts being the b st saladings. Dandelion is rather bitter and therefore is better mixed with other vegetables. Early spring brings the pilewort or celandine, a lovely little yellow starlike flower with cordate leaves, all of which are edible and beneficial. Then there is the curious landcress, in appearance something like watercress, but flatter, and with rounded leaf tops.  This should be used in small quantities,
·as it has a sharp pungent taste, but is nevertheless desirable and foll of natural iron.  Sourdock, a long leafed prolific plant, may also be added, while such herbs as buttercup and a little sweet young grass are also welcome.
   It is quite an adventure to go out in search of fresh additions to the salad bowl, and an expedition may include the children, who
;will soon learn where to look, and .whose keen eyesight readily discovers a fresh edible herb lurking deep in the hedgerow tangle. I know two little vegan girls who love to adorn their salad dish with bright edible flowers, such as primrose, cowslip, dandelion, sprigs of hawthorn and celandine. There are several varieties ·of wild mint and also, usually in water meadows and woods, wild garlic for flavouring sparingly, in salads. In many favoured tributaries, there is water.cress, lovely, fresh and free to all who know the value of this king of salad ingredients. There are, of course, scores of other edible herbs with root and shoot to be 'gathered ; their study, chiefly practical, is well worth while.

ZS	TlIE  VEGAN
THE.	FRUITARIAN	DIET
Planning the perfect nutritional regime
   "For centuries there have been movements, organisations and groupa which have sought to prove that man should not use meat in his diet. Like, wise, there have always been many who claimed that no animal foods of any kind, not even milk and eggs, should be used by man.
*	"'	*	*
   "The motives which provide the incentive for the activities of various vegetarians are founded on a mixture of ethics, philosophy, religfon and science. Some vegetarians object to meat as a food because it calls for the slaughter of animals.  This slaughter they regard as immoral and say that it involves too much cruelty. Others, who use the religious argument, claiip that the Bible speaks in favour of the exclusive diet of plant foods.  A few of the vegetarians object to eggs and milk because using them for human food is interfering with the normal plans of nature. By using these foocL! th'cy claim that we become parasites of th chicken and the cow. Occasionally you will find a vegetarian who believes that by eating flesh foods man develops a tendency to be cruel, which leads to war.
*	*	*	*
  "The vegetarian movement was doomed from the start because the leaders failed to come to any agreement as to what constitutes a normal vegetarian-diet and because they injected ethics, philosophy and religion into what should be strictly a science. People are often quite willing to live upon plant foods in order to retain their health, but they are less interested in being kind to animals . . . Scientists, likewise, are inter"tcd i11 the plant food diet insofar as it affects the development of disease, but they do not care to study the moral effects of using animal foods. Ethics, philosaphy and reli ion have no place in the modern science of nutrition.
    'When we cfo go to science we find that the plant food diet ia vco, effective. Indeed, the greatest amount of evidence seems to favour the view, poi.nt that no animal food of any kind is suitable for the human body to use and that they all help to produce disease.  But this docs not mean that just any plant food diet will produce health.
"The really healthy pla.nt eaters-those who possess the finest bodi and
who are highly immune to disease-are the fruitarians.  The fruitarian diet is composed of the products of the plant kingdom which are delicious and appealing to our taste in their natural and uncooked condition. As fruits, vegetables and nuts are the foods which meet this qualification in an ideal manner they are the primary foods used by the fruitarian ... Most vegetarians do not even approach the fruit,vegetable•nut ideal
  "At first glance the fruitarian diet perhaps appears to hinge on the borderline of fantasy. It calls for revolutionary changes in the conventional plan of nutrition.  But, nevertheless, viewed from the standpoint of science, the fruitarian diet is ideal for ma.n."
   The  above is an extract from "The Fountain of  Youth" by Arnold De Vries, a remarkable book published in 1948 in the U.S.A.; it is of particular interest and encouragement to vegans. In the first chapter we learn not only of the eternal search for youth but also how this dream may become a reality. The author ccmdemns the foods ·of modern civilization such as refined sugars,
white,flour products, canned foods, etc., and shows how the pre, valent practice 'of cooking lowers health and vitality.  He devotes

THE  VEGAN	29

a whole chapter to the fruitarian diet and another to the planning of meals; providing menus and recipes and giving factual informa, tion on the ):,est sources of minerals and vitamins in their organic form.
Exercises for the eyes, care of the feet, hair and teeth are also
,given. All who read this book carefully and endeavour to carry out its principles will revitalise and lengthen their life span.
   Fortunatelv a few cooies have been sent to Mr. G. A. Henderson,	_  Westmorland, from whom a copy
·may be obtained at 18s. 6d., post paid. There are also available a few copies of "Vital Facts about Foods" by Otto Cai-que (see The Vegan, Summer, 1950) at 13s., post paid.

SHADOWS
The buttercups make gay The carpet at my feet ;
I breathe the fragrant may, The birds my coming greet.
But even as I gaze
  On sunlit pastures green, Beyond the sheep that graze
I see a tragic scene.
That naked horror casts
  A shadow o'er my peace, And whilst that horror lasts My sorrow may not cease.
-Marion Reid.

WANTED!
   In order to complete her set of back numbers of The Vegan for reference, the Editor would be most grateful to any member who could spare Vol. I, Nos. 1 and 2.





30	THE  VEGAN

MISCELLANEOUS ADVERTISEMENTS
(Two lines 5/,: extra lines 2/, each; 20% allowed on four consecutive issues.)
SPEb'o ! 1 :12wnr:rwunrrrt:rz Jlilil  V tun I 
PRimrose 5686.
HANDMADE  Cosmetics.	Free from Animal Ingredients.	Economical in
use.	Price list on application	post.  Mrs. C. Coote,Robinson, •

"ORGANIC HUSBANDRY-A Symposium," compiled bi John S. Black,
.	burn.  2/9 post free, from the Secretary,	Ewell, Surrey.
ESTABLISHMENTS CATERING FOR VEGANS
LAKE DISTRICT. Rothay Bank, Grasmere. Attractive guest house for invigorationg, refreshing holidays.-Write Isabel James. Tel. 134.
PEN ARTH. "Vegetarian Guest House," Rectory Road. Rest, change, relaxation. Ideal situation. Pleasant holiday resort. Overlooking sea. Attractive, generous catering.. Sun Lounge. H. & C. Send for new brochure.
KESWICK.-Highfield Vegetarian Guest House offers magnificent views, good food and friendly atmosphere. Special Festival of Britain Programme, June 9th to 30th. Write: Anne Horner. Tel. 508.
BIRCHINGTON,ON,SEA, Kent.-"St. Albans," 20 Albia Road. Small Guest House, near sea and buses. Write Miss Barnes. Tel. 251.
JCENT, WESTGATE,ON,SEA.-Entirely Vegan. No Smoking. Accommoda, tion 2 to 31/2 gns., with full catering 4 to 51/2 gns. All rooms H. & C. and electric fires. Excellent position and bathing from house. Sandy beach. Mr. & Mrs. Arnaldi,	Tel. 342.
:ST. CATHERINE'S SCHOOL, Almondsbury, Nr. Bristol. -Progressive co-educational boarding school for children of all ages, specialising in music, dancing, crafts, t:tc., in addition to usual academic subjects.
400 ft. up, overlooking Channel and Welsh Hills.  Own produce.
URREY HILLS.-Vegetarian Country Club 700 feet up, grand views and walks. Central heating, garage. NO EXTRAS. Terms as in Illustrated Brochure.-Upwood House, Caterham.  Tel. 3633.


Please support our advertise-rs and mention THE VEGAN to them.

MAXI CROP
S O L U·BI L I S E D	SEAWEED
<The Finest .Fertiliser on earth


   For many years seaweed has been regar'ded as one of the most valuable of natural fertilisers. Seaweed is the natural collector of all those valuable elements which are continually being washed from the soil into rivers and thence to the sea.  In the Channel Islands and	in Cornwall-localities where two crops a year have ..been regularly maintained for a long period - 1>eaweed i.,: the chief or only fertili,ser.
The disadvantages _of using seaweed
]ie mainly in the difficulty of handling and transporting it and also in the fact that seaweed decomposes in the soil very slowly.

MAXICROP Solubilised Seaweed,•.
Maxicrop  Solubilised  Seaweed  offers  a
.11atural fertiliser in liquid form (and later in powdered form)  which  contains immediately
.available ni"trogen, phosphorus and potassium,
.and io addition those trace elements which have recently been found to be essentia} to the maintenance of healthy plant' li.fe.  These trace
.elements iron, copper, .zinc, cobalt, manganese,
,nrn,gneslum, sodium, calcium,: iodine and others; are all present in freely availaqle form. Thus Maxicrop Solubilised Seaweed i• the ideal method· of providing the soil with those e,oential elements which  tend to be leached
-Out.	.
  Maxicrop Solu bilised Seaweed also contains p1ant hormones. vital for the production of a well-developed root ·S/stem and for luxurious and· balanced growth. :
The effects of Maxicrop on plant life are
Jmmedlote.	There II\ no  decomposition  to
-.,rn lor, ond no inaolublc ruiduc of 2ny ol the eon11itucnu.  Right from the 5m oppli•
culo SolubUi•cd Seaweed gel& to work in two diotinct way,. l'irat it nourl,hca the pl>nt directly, provltling 1bo1c aubs ncc1 on which It will thrive. •nd aecondly ft providca
• a onndition In which 10!1 bactcrl•  Increase
npldly. Thia 2ccclcralfol) ol boctcri,d octivity not only cnh:111cc, humua lormotion whkh lmproves  ihe,water-holding  capacity' of the

1011, but . lee breaks dowl) and makes available those pl2nt foocu, such as _potash and phoa• phorua, which ;re plentiful in all so'l but are l,rgcl/ in a locked and non-available form.

Advantages of Maxicrop Solubilised Seaweed over othE1r Fe. tilise, s.
   From the above facts it w.:11 be appreciated that by comparison with compost or farmyard manure, Maxicrop contains many additional trace elements and plant hormones.
    Measured against any form of artificial or chemical, fertiliser, Ma icrop Solubilised Sea; weed is ·very rich: It is humus forming, whereas artificials are not. It improves both plant growth aod soil, while arti&c·als merely boost plant growth at the ultimate expense of the soil. It is immediate in action, while ard6dals must w lt for rain. It is completely avalloble to the plaot, while with artificial, only
• proportion of the poiuh, phosphate, etc., become, abfOrl,.,d by the pbnt, the remainder being paid•for wait .

Application.
   Maxicrop is the ideal general fertiliser suitable for all. vegetable and root crops, tomatoes, flower growing, soft and other fruits. It can. be applied with advantage at every stage of the growing c cle-at seeding time, transplanting, during growth and at fruitina ar:id flowering.
   \Vhen tnnsplantlna, • young plant f d whb Moricrop v.•tll not ,ulTcr the normal act•baclc, which eo ofrcn couoc it to become i1rcvocabl7 unhe:1lthy, 1pindly and poor in quality.
   Applied throughout the vrowing period, M xlcrop will au'11 early ripening and greatly enhaocc the crop yield.
Maxirrop is recommended by Kathleen Hunter (Successor fo Eleauour Siti lair Rohde).
   A 3/6 bottle of Maxicrop makes 62 gallons of fertiliser. Obtainable through Boots The Chemists and your usual supplier.


I
Tracie enquiries to Sole Distributors:
TREVENA LTD., 9.10 TOKENHOUSE YARD,' LONDON, E.C.2


PJea.se support our advertisers and mention THE VEOAN to them.






"Cycling's .not

Are you enjoying cyclin& and rambling? Follow the lead of sportsmen, whou strong nerves and stam­ ina put them "on top." Build up your staying power -  start   taking

fun for him-"
tiŁTIRŁS ŁASIL'Y

FROMENT to-day.

FROMENT is not a patent medicine, it contains Iittle or no starch. Manu­ factured solely from wheat germ, it retains its rich store of Vitamins, Protein and Minerals.



In  cartons - 3/-  and l /7-1-from all Health Food Stores or trial size direct from manufac­ turers 3/3 post free first order.



.,.



Prepar,d	ul•l1	(rom	the	,,,,,,	ol	•neat
IOHN  H, HERON,  LTD.,  HOOi\	ROU	MILLI, COOLE,  YOIIIIS,



G111111FIIRlllFN,
it·s FRU·GRAINS
for breakfast today

l I \'


\Vhen children start the day on Fru,Grains, there's no lack of early morning appetites. Crisp, crunchy and delicious, it  gives them the body•building goodness of fruit and nuts plus the sweetness and bounding energy of natural sugar.	Served in moment by simply adding milk, Fru•Grains is t'he perfect breakfast food for all the
family.
1/lapwtmis
FRU·GRAIRS
• From Health Food Store. and manr; oror·e1·s
MAPLETON'S NUT FOOD CO., LIMITED (Dept. V.11), GARSTON, LIVERPOOL, 19'
Please support our advertisers an.d mention THE VEGAN to tTiem.









Please support our adt•e7:"isers and mention THE VEGAN to them.






for  VIGOUR, HEALTH
and  FLAYOUR r
No-one who hns not lri •d composl- rown seeds can imagine the d,Hcrcnce between them nnd 1h  very best of the standard types. Vegetable have more IJSt  flowers more scent! Growth
,  more v1goro ,s and highly resistant tu disease.
COMPOST-GROWN	SEED.S
The	seeds have been grown on England from Rli1nts r<1ised in r,erfect n;otur,,I  oil  untouched  by chem,cals.	The  varieties are
,111 proven ,ind the trains spec,;,lly selected and reselected.  We believe irnpl,citly that there arc no finer seeds aQywhere ! Try them and we know yo1.1 will think so loo ! Wrote to-day for our c<1,talogue

6a CLOCHE HOUSE SHEPPERTON MIDDX


Please support our adt•ertisers and mrntion THE VEGAN to them,

l'rn,oed by H.  H. G•eaVP.s, Lio., 106/10, Lordship lane, London, S.E.2l
